## DCMI Tabular Application Profiles Python Implementations

Present: Phil Barker, Guillermo Facundo, Harold Solbrig,
Nishad Thalhath, John Samuel, John Huck, Tom Baker, Inês Lopes

[Expanded from [Phil's notes](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Vdvg3vg_8Bu-15QKY26E0kdmd6wfFGpfffHwmKHE3E0/edit#)]

Agenda

    "It would be useful to have a "bare-bones" AP class
    that defined a data structure for an application
    profile and had a robust method for reading the
    profile from a CSV."

----------------------------------------------------------
Aims for meeting

- Commonalities between python modules
- Brainstorm issues in producing shex 
  - eg, handling labels and notes
- Common proto "test suite" of working & non-working CSV files
  - with passing data and failing data
  - pairing CSV (for use as input) with expected ShExJ output

----------------------------------------------------------
Demos by John Samuel, contributor to Wikidata
- https://github.com/johnsamuelwrites/ShExStatements 

WikiProjects describe things in different domains:
programming languages, etc - but not enough because
needed to support people in using Wikidata Entity
Schemas.

ShEx statements generator for wikidata - started in
2019 - at Amsterdam hackathon.

Can we write it very simply? Based on a light version of
ShEx. Goal: Generate shape expressions from simple CSV
statements and files. Simple syntax, with five columns.

Can choose delimiter: comma, vertical bar, semicolon.

Not a complete version of ShEx. Prefixes with URLs, then 
five columns:
- Node name (like in ShEx spec): @hospital, @language
  - like shapeID in DCTAP
- Property: foaf:name, wdt:P17
  - like propertyID in DCTAP
- Allowed values: 
  - xsd:decimal (datatype)
  - wd:Q16917 (specific value)
  - @genre (node name)
- Cardinality: ?, +, 1, 2...
  - similar to DCTAP
- Comments: '# instance of a hospital'

Can have more complex things:
- Multiple values: using comma as item separator

For describing and validating information in local 
languages (shows example of Entity Schema for "hospital" 
in Malayalam language).

Demo
- https://shexstatements.toolforge.org/ 
  - links to examples that you can use to populate Web form
- Uses pyshex, ply, and flask (for website).
- Hospital (xsd:string
  https://www.wikidata.org/wiki/EntitySchema:E187) 

Tom: Would be interesting to see whether Python code 
base uses common modules. I'm using PyShEx and ShExJSG 
and PyJSG.

John: How are you parsing?

Harold (author of PyShEx and ShExJSG): To parse, I use
antlr - there is an antlr grammar on the shexspec site. I
use antlr to generate the Python parser. Then on the
shexspec site, the PyShExC parser [1] converts the ShEx
grammar (called ShExC) into ShExJ, which is the JSON
representation but is also the canonical abstract syntax
tree that we use. Then PyShEx is the interpreter. You
give it ShExJ and a start node, and set of arguments, and
it interprets the ShEx.

[1] https://github.com/shexSpec/grammar-python-antlr/tree/master/pyshexc

PyJSG (ShExJSG?) is set of Python classes that represent
the ShEx AST, so if you want to write ShEx without having
to write text (write ShExC or JSON) you can just fill out
the set of structures in Python to generate the ShEx and 
can emit ShExC or ShExJ.

John: I use ply for parsing CSV files - just for separating 
out things. For example, for adding prefixes.

Harold: When it comes to these parsers, it's always a
fine line... When one starts thinking "This is too simple
to put into a parser package" one is almost always wrong.
So now, we have several implementations running off of
the same antlr4 spec [1], which helps us stay synchronized.

[1] https://github.com/shexSpec/grammar-python-antlr

JSG [1] is a spec that Eric Prud'hommeaux produced
several years ago (?Java Schema grammar), out of
frustration three years ago about JSON Schema. Haven't
followed JSG since. So JSG is yet another JSON schema
grammar with several variants now. See pyjsg [2]. In the
meantime, JSON Schema has gotten its act together.

[1] https://github.com/ericprud/jsg<br>
[2] https://github.com/hsolbrig/pyjsg

I use JSG to generate Python objects. As Tom has learned,
it is not easy to create the collection of objects, the
outermost one of which is Schema. But if you need to
create objects, one of things you can do is go to the
'shexTest' site - hundreds of ShEx fragments in ShExC and
ShExJ [2]. You can find what you need there. So if you
have any questions how to get from ShExC to JSON
representation, will find an answer there.

[1] https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest<br> 
[2] https://github.com/shexSpec/shexTest/tree/master/schemas

John: For application profile, see
https://github.com/johnsamuelwrites/ShExStatements/blob/master/shexstatements/shexfromapplprofilecsv.py 
This is a very basic version that was created long before the current 
iteration of DC TAP.

Harold: How do you differentiate the prefixes from the
actual ShExStatements? Is it the blanks in the third to
fifth fields?

John: In the grammar, if you have three blank values, 
I consider it a prefix line.

Harold: In one line, value was a datatype and, on another
line, a permissible value. How is this done? We are
working on that very problem in another space.

John: Two at-signs mean "data type" - see
https://github.com/johnsamuelwrites/ShExStatements/blob/master/examples/example.csv 

----------------------------------------------------------
Demo by Guillermo (Willy)

- https://github.com/weso/hermes 
- a CSV format to SHEX converter in JAVA
- interested in moving to DCMI TAP

Guillermo: We chose CSV because our database applications 
do not like blanks. Our aim was just to translate, not to 
execute.

We have
- Table of prefixes
- Table of shapes

Generates ShExC file.

We want to use DC TAP, going forward. And need to support 
comments.

Phil: DC TAP does not support everything either, though 
it does support comments.

Tom: We want to keep the spreadsheet format simple.

Harold: At some point, the spreadsheet begins to look 
remarkably like a ShEx document.

Guillermo: Do I need to write the node name (shape 
name) in every line?

Tom: Have coded csv2shex so that no need to repeat it.

Harold: Agree: easier to read. Poor-man's indentation.

Guillermo: Would you allow unsorted lines?

Tom: Not currently. Have considered. I am coding to the 
scenario where someone is creating a profile in a
spreadsheet, not pulling from sources.

Guillermo: We are pulling from many sources.

Phil: Easy enough to deal with checking to see whether 
shape already exists.

[Harold creates issue: 
https://github.com/tombaker/csv2shex/issues/8 ]

----------------------------------------------------------
Tom - csv2shex

- python csv2shex - https://github.com/tombaker/csv2shex/ 
- uses pyshex

Tom: Have not yet created subcommand to emit ShExC.

Harold: The ShEx spec itself says that EachOf is 2 to N, 
so errors out if it has only one expression.

Tom: Three dataclasses pick up the CSV content. To
transform them, I import from Harold's libraries. Also
have a readthedocs documentation site (which is a bit out
of date). In WG, next step will be to look at different
types of value constraint. Want to keep up with that as
we make decisions. Things to implement: regular
expression as value constraint, picklist of literals,
picklist of URIs. Build up test suite. Happy if we have
library that reads the CSV and turns it into the subset
of ShEx that we support.

Phil: Would be happier with less, I think. Not everyone
uses ShEx. Might we have a library that simply reads a 
CSV and turns it into a Python structure that we agree on. 
Then people who work with SHACL and build on that to do 
their implementations.

Tom: Dataclasses and functions for populating - they are
already there. One could split off the parsing of CSV 
files into a separate project.

Phil: I wanted to do this, but was running into issues. I
had written stuff with 'yaml', but you use a different
YAML (ruamel.yaml), so something simpler might be useful.
For example, I was bringing in your repo as a subrepo.
Hard to work out where the problem was occurring.

Harold: Good to file issues about such things. They also 
help us clean up the documentation.

Tom: I'm open to refactoring the repo. Phil, the part 
you are interested in is embedded in my script, which 
focuses on ShEx. Would it spread things out into too many 
places?

John: Do you have multiplate values?

Tom: We have a constraintValueType, which could be
'picklist'. I am wary of "spreadsheet dialects" so a 
bias to getting something simple.

John: My motivation as well. I handle picklists using 
different separators. For example, CSV that uses vertical 
bars, so can use commas to separate multiple values.

Nishad: I adopted some examples from Phil.

Phil: Commas seem natural for multiple values. Python 
structure could be a list, even if it is a list of one.

----------------------------------------------------------
CSV test files

- just fragments, minimum needed to build test.
- Quirks/errors to watch for:
  - must have propertyID, 
  - constraintType with matching constraint, 
  - URIs/CURIEs where required, 
  - extra/extensions columns, 
  - non-standard column headings (config file)
  - namespace abbreviations (config file)
  - malformed CSV
  - problems comma separators, unescaped quotes
  - undefined prefixes
  - List of ShEx possible errors: https://github.com/thewilly/shex-lite-book/blob/master/thesis.pdf Pages (35-38)
- Should generate info about where error is (file, line, comma, context--node that causes error)

