
# DCAP meeting Wednesday July 1, 2020 

Time: [14:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP+July+01&iso=20200701T14&p1=1440&ah=1&am=30) 

Zoom Join URL: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84930188478

HackMD agenda: https://hackmd.io/u15ZVs7cS2iYckuSXMRJpQ

### Minutes of [previous meeting](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-06-17.dcap_zoom_call.md)

## Participants

1. Tom Baker
2. Karen Coyle
3. John Huck
4. Phil Barker
5. Nishad Thalhath
6. Ben Riesenberg



# Agenda

Discuss value type and value constraint

Google Doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RnV17okcLnxtWFPTbhyeZKVxNZCOltLdpV9NnZe3Ca4/edit#heading=h.it5k5phv3wtp

Example table: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pFLYCgHBQgEDliJKUrLYESOYHZJEfV31MeNeEVNuivo/edit#gid=0

## 1. What does "value type" mean?

Proposed definition: The valid or expected data type of the value in the instance data for that property.

ACCEPTED IN PRINCIPLE, June 17, 2020

## 2. What does "value" (or "value constraint") mean?
Proposed definition: Additional constraints beyond the value type. This only needs to be filled in if there are such constraints. 

ACCEPTED IN PRINCIPLE June 17, 2020

# Minutes

Discussion of value type and value constraint

Google Doc: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RnV17okcLnxtWFPTbhyeZKVxNZCOltLdpV9NnZe3Ca4/edit#heading=h.it5k5phv3wtp

## Basic value type
Tom: Use [none] not blank because blank could be confused with blank node
kc: possible confusion between entity type and value - entity is not in the data therefore is a not a value type.
Phil: entity must ben a IRI in data (or bnode)
kc: if not specified is it IRI or BNODE (because can't be a literal)
Ben: Question: enter entity reference in row with property or on row for entity?
kc: it's a property that has an entity as an object
Tom: value type doesn't refer to the entity reference but to the value in the instance data
kc: "referral" - entity referred to is a node
Tom: but not in the instance data, it's not a node in the data (the @ entity reference, that is)
Phil: suggest that we call it "entity shape"
Tom: Entity Shape Reference - because entity is being used in two different columns: the entity itself is in the entity column; the entity reference is a reference to an entity in the data
(kc aside: even re-listening I got confused during this discussion, so my notes here may not reflect what people actually meant.)
Phil: "The value of this property must conform to this entity shape"
... and the entity shape reference is a value constraint, therefore it doesn't require a separate column
kc: You cannot have both a value constraint and an entity shape referral, so one column is enough
Tom: Are there edge cases? For example an IRI stem as an entity ID
John: Have we limited what the Entity Shape Referral can be? i.e. what if it is "VIAF or id.loc.gov"? Can it be a list of specific IRIs? (General feeling: if we find use cases we can go further with this, but no one had any.)
kc: OK, decided: move Entity Shape Referral back to value constraint column. It still needs a definition and a name for the documentation
tom: Reminder: we still have an open issue of the syntax of the ESR, that is the use of the "@"


## Value types (general)
First a discussion of the general value types (literal, IRI, bnode)
Phil usefully defined these as basic RDF node types
Nishad: What is something is either a literal or an IRI?
kc: Use ShExC technique for or? Also note that if you say "literal or IRI" it becomes very difficult to say anything about specific datatypes or constraints. We had an example from John in the [June 3 meeting](https://hackmd.io/xfGmpp3zROWbckhvIRmNBA), and it seems that the solution is to create a shape where they can be defined separately. So OR can be hard to do but should be allowed.
Nishad: and AND?
kc: No idea - let's keep that question open.
John: keep the basic type separate from the datatype - this keeps the meaning of the column clear and makes it easier to parse (e.g. one element type per column).
Phil: use of these basic types: it's easier to transform the table into ShEx if they are there, and it helps define the constraint column for validation

## Value datatype
Nishad rightly notes that the specific value type is actually a datatype, and that constraints are constraints on the datatype
kc: can we define a short "starter" list of datatypes?
Nishad: The primer should have a small list of examples, but a specification should say precisely what is allowed. xsd is pretty complete; the default should be "string"
kc: specification should say that any standard-defined datatype with an IRI as identifier is allowed; xsd is suggested as a primary source of datatypes
kc: are there other types we need to include? number, date, currency, integer?
Phil: Duration is important. (https://www.w3.org/TR/xmlschema11-2/#duration)
kc: how about longitude/latitude? standard?
John: Georef gives you a point, bounding boxes an area *(kc note: there seem to be a number of different geo standards, so maybe we can just presume that the geo folks know which ones they want to use)*
John: What about names for people? How do you say that this property takes names in *lastname, firstname* order?
kc: what about IRIstem?
Nishad: IRI (or anyIRI) is a datatype; IRIstem is a constraint. The datatype then is blank?

## Value constraint

Nishad: Could we write a ShExC statement as a constraint? Otherwise we have to create a constraint language, when one already exists.
kc: Do we have to have a constraint type column, e.g. ShexC or regex? because they both just look like strings unless they are defined
Tom: we need more examples of possible constraints, such as picklists
Phil: We we allow constraints to be written as shex, why not just have the whole profile be in shex? It seems that some non-shex constraints will be needed.

*Discussion ends there at the end of the hour. KC will try to create some documents and prepare the next meeting.*


----

# Open Questions

1. Will we want to define URIs for these properties? Do we prefer to use existing DC (or other) terms or AP-specific? 
6. How to define namespaces within a tabular format?
7. How far do we want to take the value definitions? Include more, or leave to developers? What is the optimum "simple" for this? Would we want to include regex formulas in this column?
9. Can valuetype be expanded to include pick lists, URI stems? Or do we limit to standard value types?
10. Should the entity be on a separate row, or only on the row with properties? (advantages to separate: can include cardinality; can have an entity-specific annotation)
11. How can we include constraints for "recommended" and "mandatory if applicable"?
12. What transformations can we add to our prototypes? 
13. Should we specifically develop a "ShEx-friendly" version? e.g. https://github.com/johnsamuelwrites/dcap/blob/master/ShExStatements/shexstatements.ipynb

### Resolved

1. Can minimalist profile be the core of a more extensive profile template? (We seem to agree that it SHOULD.)
2. Can the "simple" be used as is, or are more properties needed? (We are going with "as is" for now)
3. How will we handle multiple values in a single cell (e.g. a pick list of string values)? ANSWER: For now using ShEx method of space between entries.


