# DCAP meeting Wednesday August 12, 2020 

Time: [14:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP+August+12&iso=20200812T14&p1=1440&ah=1&am=30) 

Zoom Join URL: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84930188478

HackMD agenda: https://hackmd.io/OH9muEUFSJGJo10W3V9wsw

### Minutes of [previous meeting](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020.07.15.dcap_zoom_call.md)

## Participants

1. Karen Coyle
2. Tom Baker
3. Phil Barker
4. Ben Riesenberg
5. Nishad Thalhath
6. John Huck


# Agenda

1. Decide: for value constraints, one column or two?

One: https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues/63#issuecomment-668164617
Two: https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues/63#issuecomment-668170101

**Decided: two columns, one for value constraint type and one for value constraint**

2. Try to decide what value constraint types we will offer as part of the template. 

*Or do we need to decide value types first?*

Here are some ideas and issues relating to constraint types:

1. types, or actions, or? (type=pick list, action=choose one of)
2. if we use "regex" - which regex?!

Some possible constraint types (taken from programming languages, etc.) that we haven't considered, AFAIK:

* List
* Class (presumably the value type would be URI)

## [Roundup of value type examples in the wild](https://hackmd.io/x4_FMJtZSE6sHMsdJDPoDQ)

## Karen's list of value questions

*Value type*

Value type is the data type of the instance data for that property. 

- I think it should be called "Value Datatype"

XSD as the basic set
We've basically concluded that the XSD datatype set [1] is reasonably complete. We also know that for some people they are familiar with "string" as a type but not xsd:string, and "date" not xsd:date. We could find a way to include some synonyms for common types, such that "string" in Value Datatype = xsd:string. We could include this in a standard auxiliary file that also contains the more common prefixes. 

*Value constraints*

Value constraints are essentially *functions*, they are operations to be done over the data, either in creation or ingestion. We could type these with function-like wording:
 - select from list (list of anything that is a datatype)
 -- are pick lists really that common today, especially in RDF data?
 - values from location (uri stem)
 - calculation (mathematical calculation)
 - ShEx code (ShEx snippet?)

*Open questions*

 - should value strings have to be in quotes?
 - how to do OR when there is a choice of values
 -- comma delimited?
 -- space delimited (with quotes around values) (as in ShEx)
 - how to include the language codes on strings? and allow multiple strings in cells, e.g. labels

## Minutes

Links from chat:

Ben Riesenberg:	@Karen:
Sinopia property-type options on Line 77 here:
Ben Riesenberg:	https://github.com/LD4P/sinopia/blob/80dbde2ab25bec4016e87e467df6334df9028f6d/schemas/0.2.1/property-template.json#L75


00:28:19	Karen Coyle:	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P5LCdCgZaKuDWf5pfYndQw0GIiupqmI-WQVNVvuHsIo/edit

Phil Barker:	https://bioschemas.org/profiles/

Nishad Thalhath:	https://www.theverge.com/2020/8/6/21355674/human-genes-rename-microsoft-excel-misreading-dates

Nishad Thalhath:	https://www.issn.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/ISSN-LinkedDataApplicationProfile-v1_1-1.pdf

### Decide (github [issue #63](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues/63)) separate columns for constraint type and constraint

In issue people had given thumbs up, so this is decided.

RESOLVED: separate columns for constraint type and constraint

Nishad: how to do min/max - would need two columns.
kc: Hoping to use a formula
Nishad: Similar to ShEx value set - how will we do that?
kc: We haven't figured that out yet, so that's still on our plate. Includes questions of and/or/not

kc: Need to avoid "progammy" stuff - the template precedes the program design so the template creator will not know how the program will work. An example is BNODE v URI; another is regex. These may not be in skill set of person creating template.

## Constraint operates on value

Constraint takes place on value for which we have defined a value type; and the value type is the type of the value in the instance data. 

RESOLVED: No one objects to this statement

Tom: Unclear to me whether we would need to have a value type like 'literal' 'uri' or whether we could mix that with notion of a constraint type. Wondering if the value type (literal, bnode, uri) could be combined with the constraint type which includes more specific things, like date. I don't have a strong feeling about this. I think we said we would have value type at the higher level and constraint types would be more specific.

John: schema.org types do that kind of mixing. The problem we ran into is that there would be cases where you couldn't distinguish between what is the type of the instance data and the structure of the metadata. In the instance data how could you distinguish between a URI and a URI that came from a value stem constraint?

kc: Some problems with having value type and valuedatatype. First, the RDF datatypes may not be in skillset of our audience, e.g. non-literal. And you may not know if a node is going to be a bnode. The other issue is overlap: you could have URI in both columns, which could be error prone.

Nishad: An explicit declaration gives us more precision; duck typing has problems. We could introduce our own terms that are best for the audience.

kc: Can we get along with a single datatype column, and if later programs need it they can add that RDF value type column (kind of an extension). For this, we need to be able to say IRI in the datatype column.

Phil: let's keep them both in for now. If people don't understand it they don't need to fill it in. But we need more examples. Agree with Nishad about duck typing.

kc & tom: they can be defined in a way that they can be inferred.

Phil: but what about bnode?

kc: literal and non-literal are also problems

phil: how are you to know if a non-literal is a bnode?

kc: We are developing a vocabulary prior to any programming being done - so there are no bnodes.

phil: but the data is there. Thinking about schema.org and creating profiles of schema.org. schema has bnodes all over the place. 

kc: but bnode is not a schema.org data type

nishad: we have defaults: if not declared it is a literal. In that way we cover all uses. But we have lots of use cases for bnodes and they are all over the place. So if people know what they are doing they can opt for bnode. If not literal you can define if it is IRI or bnode.

kc: let's look at use cases. 

nishad: I read our template from left to right. It gets more complex as we go from left to right. And everything to the right of the propertyID is optional. The declaration of IRI/bnode/literal is fundamental for shaping the data.

kc: I wouldn't want to present this to non-programmer audience

tom: I agree with Nishad but I don't think it is necessary for everyone to use a value type. If they are thinking in terms of the specific datatypes they can use just that column. 

kc: present it in documentation as different options for different situations. 

tom: Has much to do with how we present examples. 

kc: in full template this is the first column after property so it seems very important, so we need to address this in documentation.

tom: order of the columns isn't fixed. 

kc: here's what I started: Karen Coyle:	https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P5LCdCgZaKuDWf5pfYndQw0GIiupqmI-WQVNVvuHsIo/edit
In addition to moving from simple to more complex, we should show use cases that people can relate to.

## What are the actual data types?

kc: need these set before we get to constraints.

tom: Do we mean the actual XSD datatypes? You could have the XSD datatypes as constraints, and "XSD" could be a constraint type. Do you mean a separate column for datatype, and a separate column for type uris? or names that are mapped to xsd type?

kc: the questions:
1. what do we mean by datatype?
2. are datatypes and constraints on datatypes separate?

email suggested we recommend: 
1. Use XSD datatypes
2. For a small number we would define a synonym term e.g. date, string, etc. Beyond those would use the XSD types.

Nishad: We used a shortcut that you could just type "string" and that meant xsd:string. if no prefix it is by default xsd:.

kc: that would need to be in our prefix rules; it would be the default. In our documentation we would highlight the ones we think are most common. But this doesn't give us langString

Nishad: make language string a constraint;

Tom: the language string is the whole thing; the constraint might be language tag and that implies that the value is a string.

kc: and the constraint would be which languages are valid?

tom: yes, like a pick list, you could have a list of language tags; constraint type would be language tag picklist. Picklist would be default for many things; you could have a picklist of one. You'd then have to say that elements are separate with blanks. (Although that runs into problems with regex's)

tom: can we dump the xsd list into a spreadsheet and add our votes for the ones we think are most useful?

ACTION: kc to create a list where folks can mark datatypes

kc: I made up constraint examples but they are random. Where should we go?

Tom: think of a starter set of really obvious ones; we won't be able to be comprehensive. We want to present a model that meets many use cases but it's extensible. 

kc: How should we begin with constraints?

phil: best to look at realistic examples/use cases.

kc: I haven't found good examples of constraints in existing profiles; they tend to be just selections of vocabulary terms.

tom: maybe a lot of profiles really are very simple

kc: in DCAT there are constraints explained in the comment column. In a way by doing the constraints we are getting close to creating the program.

phil: however, if you are checking data then you really need those details

kc: since many profiles haven't formalized constraints, could we issue our first beta version without the constraint part?

nishad: life science community are moving datasets from csv to RDF; they are highly precise so they need very good constraints for good validation; we need good constraints to attract that community

tom: We probably can't solve this problem completely; and it's like the DC 15 elements - where do you stop? DC set a limit of 15, and the application profile arose to extend that. In the documentation we can distinguish between a core and a section on how to extend that for more complex needs. But not try to anticipate all of those cases. We would present a core with examples of extending it.

John: the extension concept leads to a separation between a datatype column and a RDF value type column, then this is a good basis for making extensions

kc: there are communities that are doing constraints and understand them; we could ask those communities what they are using, and we could have a clearing house where everyone can go see. So the extension is by example, seeing what others have done.

Nishad: If we have a constraint type, people can create complex constraints in regex, shex, shacl. An application profile is a **explainer** and a **constrainer**. We need it to be actionable.

kc: I suggest that we make the constraint part a second step. We could define two columns and not define what should be into those, but we could have examples of constraints, and there will be a place for constraints in the model.

Nishad: constraint is why people need an application profile. This example is an AP that only has shape constraints. Literal constraints are more complicated and need more defintion for validation. Shape constraints are easy - just cardinality.
https://www.issn.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/ISSN-LinkedDataApplicationProfile-v1_1-1.pdf
But literals are a tough case for constraints.

kc: If we divide into explainer and constrainer we can say we have the explainer now, and work on the constrainer next. Don't yet know if rdf value types are constrainer or explainer. (Phil: I don't know either.) So this remains an open question.

ACTION: kc send an email with a short version of where we are, the state of where we are.
