# DCAP meeting Wednesday October 21, 2020 

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP+meeting&iso=20201021T14&p1=1440&ah=1))
**Zoom Join URL:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/87319362709
**HackMD agenda:** https://hackmd.io/vwVAcKeqQd6reUqdBoI9HA

### Minutes of [previous meeting](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020.10.07.dcap_zoom_call.md) 

### [Resolutions from previous discussions](https://hackmd.io/tjFOwoqqTIid4jtfmVzkLg)

## Participants

## Agenda

* Review "tutorial" [documentation](https://hackmd.io/pTp9ub_bQbO6vxZra1w-kw) 
    * Introduction: remove project info to another document?
    * Definition of "shape" 
    * Review diagrams
    * Keep csv? or do just one example?
    * Add instance data example(s)?
    * Do full example (e.g. from course diagram) at beginning?
* Sample profiles and instance data for December event
* Vocabulary document (pending)
    * ??? what should it contain?


## Minutes

Tom: Want to talk about back-end design, like having a document with examples stored separately?

kc: We probably aren't ready; but think about that when we look at examples.

Nishad: There is shapeID and propertyID - shapeID is a local reference. But propertyID is an external IRI.

Tom: shapeID could also be a URI; not necessarily local
Nishad: but in template, shapeID is an identifier with "@" before it.

kc: we've actually removed the "@" before it; if you have a shape reference it has to match a shape in the shapeID column. Phil's examples from last time show shapeIDs as IRIs.

Nishad: ok

kc: Intro has info about the project - why, etc. Not sure if, in the end, this remains in this document.

Tom: good to capture this, maybe a web page context, blog post, etc. Can reuse this text. Reference will be short; tutorial will be more directed.

kc: leave in for now to introduce it to people, but final document won't need it. This will be intro info for meeting in December.

kc: need a good definition of shape. Now is:

"In the development of validation concepts for RDF data the emphasis is on the set of statements that specify how an entity is described. These statements combine into groups called shapes, where a shape defines the structure that applications can expect to find in a view over a piece of data."

Tom: good start

kc: think about this and add as comment or in email

ACTION: kc to make this a github issue; post this and sentence from Ruben V.

JohnH: Should we acknowledge as used by ShEx and SHACL? 

kc: will add those into github; that's in a comment somewhere

Tom: also DCMI description set

kc: yes, should add references to the document

phil: scope section: what relates this work to other work

kc: a real explanation of how this relates sounds like a good article

tom: expressivity of this model vs other schema languages, e.g. "or" 

kc: there is a sentence at the top: "The goal of this DCMI project is to create a standard format for a basic set of application profile functions. We recognize that application profiles can be quite complex and the range of use cases is broad. This present effort does not attempt to address all possible use cases, but, in the same spirit of the Dublin Core Metadata Terms, hopes to provide a basic set of functions that can be extended as needed."

ACTION: Add here, for more complex functions see schema languages, etc.

Phil: also could be an appendix, including DCMI work

Nishad: Also: what is need of aps now that we are moving to open LD; why this now?

Tom: Some version of the story that metadata structures have been about validation, but RDF came along and RDF is terrible at validation, so then come these new solutions (APs, shex).

kc: perhaps not here, but why this is needed, what else is going on, etc.

tom: what can you do with shex that you cannot do with this?

kc: my [pattern document](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/patterns.md) covers some of this. 

jh: this document can focus on clarifying terms in use, that folks might have heard of.

kc: we don't define AP here

tom: need a glossary section; people can look up there

kc: +1

kc: diagrams - look at NIshad's diagrams. Do that offline

tom: this summarizes optional/mandatory/etc., minimal, basic, explainer, constrainer. This packs a lot into a single image. This is more info than a reader can take in at once. Would it be easy to take these parts and do a PPT where the part that you need to focus on appears. I'm worried about the amount of information presented. Also, it is too long to have in one line. Putting it up at the top may not be best way to use it. 

kc: you suggested a full example at the beginning

tom: yes, a table, and then make reference back to that example. If examples are complete enough to make sense they might contain too much detail. 

kc: I still think that each example should be coherent. And the examples so far are minimal but sensible.

kc: Found learning environment diagram online, and this could be the full example. Is DBMS diagram (primary keys). Probably need to redo because does not make use of properties.

Tom: could drop some of it and it would still work

ACTION: kc try to create a better diagram from this learning environment one

ACTION: tom ask Paul about best way to do tables so they can be rendered in an interesting way (lines, color)

ACTION: kc list multiple values in a cell as "unresolved" (maybe need an unresolve list?)

Discussion: multiple values, commas, quotes - functions exist but every program library does it slightly differently

kc: Looking at document, includes CSV values for each example. Do? don't?

Tom: would like a repo of examples that could be cited from this document or from code; have the csv in a repo that can be included.

nishad: I like the shex primer with interactivity

kc: good goal, but won't have at time when we issue this document. Remove the csv? show it once? 

tom: not necessary to show csv. 

kc: just do it once

nishad: csv is for machines; this documentation is for humans. better to remove csv from documentation.

tom: we could link to a csv in our repo, in raw format (raw has a different URL)

kc: do that just once

kc: we don't show any instance data. Maybe show in full example? 

tom: yes, because there's the confusion between what's an AP vs the data that it is validating. Have a full example and then an example of conforming data.

kc: what format would conforming data be in?

Phil: circles and arrows as a diagram

John: turtle

kc: or both

kc: sample profiles and instance data for december meeting. Anyone?

tom: wikidata

nishad: we have linked datasets, plus wikidata. shex is format of shapes in wikidata

ACTION: Nishad, find a couple of interesting wikidata entities and render them in our template. Also, pubchem data: 
https://pubchemdocs.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/rdf
and
https://www.disgenet.org/rdf

ACTION: Phil to do a schema.org courses like the diagram in here. Could do a limited example.

kc: December meeting - short PPT with examples, then ask people what they see as useful/needed but not there. Very short intro, then examples.

tom: about that event - it's a regular zoom call, call it "open meeting"; not a webinar, not a lecture. Will do publicity for it. Can handle up to 100 people, maybe won't get that many. People can control their video and sound, and can raise their hand.



Links to CSV libraries:

Phil Barker:	@tom: the csv read/write library that I use is just the standard python lib https://docs.python.org/3/library/csv.html 

Nishad Thalhath:	https://csvkit.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

kc: working on vocabulary document - will be very concise

