# DCAP meeting Wednesday September 9, 2020 

Time: [14:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP+September+09&iso=20200909T14&p1=1440&ah=1&am=30) 

Zoom Join URL: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84930188478

HackMD agenda: https://hackmd.io/ZPCNVUSQSaOevG9eR9OMKA

### Minutes of [previous meeting](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020.08.26.dcap_zoom_call.md) *not yet*

### [Resolutions from previous discussions](https://hackmd.io/tjFOwoqqTIid4jtfmVzkLg)

## Participants

1. Tom Baker
2. Nishad Thalhath
3. John Huck
4. Karen Coyle
5. Phil Barker

## Agenda

## Questions from August 26 meeting re: value types

For more detail: https://hackmd.io/8a6W55lXSaC_yt1XbbRgCg

### Strict or loose?

Before deciding on an RDF-specific profile, the value types that were being defined were loose - they had no formal definitions. We were thinking of defining a small number of common types but allowing profilers to add from their own local idiom as desired. More information could be included in the Annotation column.

With RDF, the types are pre-defined in the RDF documentation, and could be considered to be *strict*. 

**Decision**: literal datatypes types in RDF profiles SHOULD be taken from the valid RDF datatypes. Other desired datatypes SHOULD have a URI identifier and be clearly defined in the documentation for that datatype scheme. Any non-standard or custom datatypes might not be understood outside of the community creating the profile.



## Use XSD: as default in data type column?

Propose: use xsd: or rdf:/rdfs: wherever appropriate to eliminate ambiguity. 

**Decision**: datatypes entered into the literal datatype column MUST have a URI prefix (or full URI)

## Syntax or semantics?

Does the template value type define syntax, semantics, or both?

In looking at both ShEx and SHACL, they both validate both syntax and semantics in RDF value data types.

Suggested: if using RDF value types, both syntax and semantics are defined and presumed will be validated

**Decision**: it will be assumed that validation programs will check the format of xsd: literals (e.g. that all but plain xsd:string must have "^^" and the xsd datatype identifier) as well as whether the literal portion is valid for that datatype. E.g. "23"^^xsd:integer is valid but "xyz"^^xsd:integer is not. 

## Separate columns for RDF node and RDF data type?
 
**Decision**: There will be a separate column for the RDF value node type as well as the literal datatype.

## Discussion

Discussion of schema.org and use of domainIncludes. Karen had it wrong: the domainIncludes has all of the domains that then are used to create the pages.

Could classes be used in the table as a shorthand for defining properties? 

kc: Europeana has a use case where they will accept any property whose domain is skos:Concept.

Can this be done with rdf:type in the column?

Phil: it seems odd to me that we have only included properties, not classes, but classes are important; could you have an application profile that is just classes? How do you from what we are defining to be able to validate instance data in bulk? How do you know which blocks of instance data are validated with which shapes?

Tom: from a ShEx perspective you would make a shape map that maps the shapes to the nodes you want to validate. 

Phil: can't be enumerated; too much work

kc: if you don't want to enumerate properties, only classes, where would that go in the table?

Phil: don't know

Tom: Phil wants to list the schema.org classes and you want to use different labels and different definition, you could have profile with a shape label and property ID rdf:type and the schema.org class; then use annotation which would be the definition. In essence you would have a list of classes and they would have labels you could use for display. It wouldn't give you any other validatable possibilities.

kc: we have a row for the entity/shape but we have no constraints on that

Phil: I think we need to firm up headings and definitions of headings

kc: need to decide on column headers

Phil: entity is in the instance data - use shape

kc: shape doesn't work for me

tom: I agree with phil, entity is in the data

kc: entity is something that the metadata defines

tom: a shape is a grouping mechanism for things that describe a description

kc: shape is too abstract

tom: if we define it and illustrate it

kc: template has to stand on its own; cannot assume that people have absorbed the data

Phil: why do we need two label columns? couldn't we just have a label column

kc: if people put shapes and properties on one row you won't know which thing it is the label for

tom: agree

phil: there are usability issues if you have lots of columns

tom: yes, once we agree on what these are called we should find shorter names for the headers; it gets to be many characters wide

phil: width will be defined by data, not by headers

phil: also - headers shouldn't be designed to be machine-readable; first column will be headers, so I'd rather that they be labels, not machine-oriented names. Add spaces, remove camel case.

kc: we are going to have to define a vocabulary.

tom: use underscores?

kc: have to connect columns to vocabulary

Nishad: why do we need two labels? one row is for one type of data

kc: where does that column go? because columns are the same in both rows.

Nishad: both columns can just be "label"; we can drop the second label.

kc: I'll make an issue for label




