# DCAP meeting Wednesday March 18, 2020 

Time: [15:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP&iso=20200318T15&p1=1440&ah=1) Check because of daylight savings time

Zoom Join URL: https://zoom.us/j/705482499

HackMD agenda: https://hackmd.io/pn6iMR_VRi2cPkQEd-g8Dw

## Participants

1. John Huck
2. Phil Barker
3. Tom
4. Karen
5. Nishad


Regrets: 

## Agenda

### Minutes of [previous meeting](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/)

* https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-03-03.dcap_zoom_call.md

### Review minimalist profile(s)

1. Do we want both value type and value constraint properties? (See comparison below.)
2. Comments on [formalism](https://hackmd.io/AmIpwmtVSM2E5BpMmckdCQ)
3. Nishad - present prefix idea?
4. Begin reviewing [definitions](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/simple.md)

Karen: Tom and I were on ShEx call.  Various people are working on tabular-to-ShEx, so we should have something that moves from tabular to RDF and also does checking of validity of the profile (as opposed to validity of the data).  Will keep you up-to-date on that. Not everyone is creating profiles for data in RDF, so there could be other converters such as tabular-to-XMLschema.

Karen: We need to decide if we will have two separate columns: 1) Value type (data type of the value), then 2) need for "additional constraints" (like pick lists, URI stems). Awhile ago we thought they might be combined into Value Type, but now thinking best to separate.

Tom: Would like to keep Value Type simple.

Nishad: Value type is very important for real-world scenarios: creating forms, validation. Maybe just make subset of XML schema types.

Karen: Would love if someone could propose one. There are things in ShEx or SHACL, like IRI Stem.

ACTION: Nishad to look at ShEx and post small subset to list, for discussion.

Nishad: Value Type of an IRI Stem is IRI.  You can mix and match and make complex profiles.

Phil: Agrees that it is good to have two separate columns -not have to work out whether Value Type or further constraints.  In RDF AP that I am working on, value types tend to be RDF Classes (drawn from range in base specification). But that AP is not a good example of minimalist profile. 

RESOLVED: Separate Value Type and Value X (name not discussed).

Karen: We have talked about "really minimal" profile (just profiles). Would include value type.

Nishad: Easier to be adopt if just properties.

Karen: Should perhaps call "Property_ID".  Need to decide what value.  Do we need to define defaults?  

Nishad: Unsure what default used for.

Karen: We'll work with this model for now.

RESOLVED: Value Type is optional - property-only is okay.

Nishad: We do not have default prefixes for anything. prefixes.cc - alot of spam, and some have multiple URLs. LOV is not a proper registry. No policy about persistence, etc.  Could DC maintain a prefix registry?  Freely use default registry.  For example, 'dct:' or 'dcterms:'.  Is there any way to get more interoperability?  Default prefix registry.  RDFa initial context has not been updated - and no way to propose new one.  Either we have to have some mechanism for defining prefixes or point to some list.  Now we have hundreds of namespaces.  If you have a simple list of prefixes. Default registry is useful when you try to write parsers - can be included in scripts (hard-coded).

Karen: Assuming that the CSV of the profile will have to be turned into something (like RDF, XML) to be useful. Phil, you had a tab for prefixes, right?

Phil: If you design AP that draws terms from one or more existing specs, then you need to define those specs. In RDF, these are URIs.  Doesn't need to be a tab - could be a few lines above.

Nishad: CSVW - define prefixes in separate file?  If you have a default list, namespace declarations can be optional. In long run, defining prefixes in the profile is very useful. Do not need to load anything extra.

Karen: One option: have the default, but if people are not using, provide "elsewhere" - tab in spreadsheet, text file, etc. Nishad, you are arguing to keep together.

Tom: as Nishad said, CSV standard does not include separate tabs. You would need to create your own tools, while there are standard CSV tools

Nishad: Special formats are expensive: Java, PHP... If you take example of ShEx - Javascript parser, etc.  But if standard format, already have parsers everywhere - don't have to write it. MetaBridge Project: we couldn't provide all of the parsers. Cannot use standard tools with custom formats.  The more customization, the harder to sell... More difficult to maintain in long run. Either stay with standard format. Turtle - but RDF is a big community. Otherwise, expensive to support.

Omeka has CSV parser.

Nishad: If you have standard conversion, Open Refine is really easy.

Tom: Put namespace prefixes in rows or columns?

Nishad: Easiest to put into separate file.  If you need more than the standard lists, then must have way to declare.

Tom: Parser could take two inputs: 1) prefix declaration table, with known format. 2) Simple application profile table, with known format.

Nishad: Hard to picture putting them both into same structure (e.g., one row).

John: Take step back: how to handle properties that are not URIs... What if you generalize - use the property label column.  "You must have text or URI property", but you'd have more certainty about what they provide.

Karen: Could you mock up an example and post? Let's put examples into that directory.

### Comparison

Elements

|[no 1]( https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/tree/master/prototypes/simpleFromHackathon) | [no 2](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/prototypes/wikidatapainting/E130b.csv)
| --- | --- 
|Entityname|Entityname|
|Entitylabel|Entitylabel|
|StatementID| |
|Property|Property|
|PropertyLabel|Propertylabel|
|Cardinality|Mand|
||Repeat|
||Value|
Valuetype|Valuetype|
Annotation|Annotation|

### Questions

1. What is the simplest that a profile can be and still be a profile?
2. Can minimalist profile be the core of a more extensive profile template?
3. Can the "simple" be used as is, or are more properties needed?
5. Will we want to define URIs for these properties? Do we prefer to use existing DC (or other) terms or AP-specific? 
6. How to define namespaces within a tabular format?
7. How far do we want to take the value definitions? Include more, or leave to developers? What is the optimum "simple" for this?
8. Can valuetype be expanded to include pick lists, URI stems? Or do we limit to standard value types?
9. What transformations can we add to our prototypes? 
11. Should we specifically develop a "ShEx-friendly" version? e.g. https://github.com/johnsamuelwrites/dcap/blob/master/ShExStatements/shexstatements.ipynb

### Resolved

1. Shall we complete this minimalist profile? RESOLVED: YES (Feb 18)
2. Do properties have to be URIs? (RESOLVED: no (Feb 18)) (Because we resolved earlier that URIs are not required, a separate property label" would not be required. (We questioned this later.))
4. RESOLVED: Profile can be less than simple template (entities, properties, values). (March 3)
5. RESOLVED: That the most minimal profile could consist of a list of properties.
6. ACTION: To develop definitions for the elements of the simple profile model (as a document in Github).  (Tom will give John and Alexis access to the repository.) Karen will create initial document.
