# DCAP meeting February 18, 2020

Time: [16:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP+meeting&iso=20200218T16&p1=1440)

Zoom: https://zoom.us/j/700222612

## Agenda

Participants
1. Karen Coyle
2. Tom Baker
3. John Huck (UAlberta)
4. Nishad Thalhath
5. Stuart Sutton
6. Alexis McClimans (UWashington)

Regrets: Mariana

### Review minimalist profile(s)

1. https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/tree/master/prototypes/simpleFromHackathon
2. https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/tree/master/prototypes/wikidata_painting


### Comparison

**Elements**

|no 1 | [no 2](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/prototypes/wikidata_painting/E130b.csv)
| --- | --- 
|Entity_name|Entity_name|
|Entity_label|Entity_label|
|Statement_ID| |
|Property|Property|
|Property_Label|Property_label|
|Cardinality|Mand|
||Repeat|
||Value|
Value_type|Value_type|
Annotation|Annotation|

(kc note) The main differences here have to do with whether there will be identities for the entity and statement. The first prototype treats Entity_name as an identifier, with Entity_label as the viewable string, and gives an identifier (Statement_ID) to the property statement. Question #3 below may be relevant, because if URI-identified properties are used (e.g. ex:book) for entities then the difference between Entity_name and Entity_label is parallel to Property and Property_label, which both have. The situation that led us to add a Statement_ID at the Hackathon was for the reuse of properties with different constraints (cardinality, values). We could think of situations where a property like dct:title could have cardinality 0,n in one situation and 1,1 in another in the same profile. Or the use of dct:date where in one statement it is a year and in another it is year-day-time.

This bring up a whole question of the assumptions about properties vs structure in the profile. Must each property in each context have its own identity, or is it assumed that properties can have meaning within the context of a structure? In the first, no two properties will have the same identifier; in the second, property URIs can be reused but the profile must have a structure that defines the context. In either case, re-using a URI-defined property within a single structural unit will cause problems:


property | property_label | value_type
|-------|------|----
dct:date | Creation date/time | xsd:dateTime
dct:date | Publication year | xsd:year

Is this something we should try to solve, or should we only document the problem? If we do recommend reuse of existing URI-defined properties it seems that this question comes up.

### Questions

Many of these are questions that have to eventually be decided, so the first step is to determine if these are the right questions. Answers to them are not expected during the meeting with the possible exception of #1.

1. Shall we complete this minimalist profile? 
2. Is there one even more minimalist, just properties and values, or even just properties? Can the minimalist profile be either?
3. Can it be used as is, or are more properties needed?
4. Will we want to define URIs for these properties? Do we prefer to use existing DC (or other) terms or AP-specific? 
5. How to define namespaces within a tabular format?
6. Do properties have to be URIs? (Decided? no)
7. How far do we want to take the value definitions? Include more, or leave to developers? What is the optimum "simple" for this?
8. Can value_type be expanded to include pick lists, URI stems? Or do we limit to standard value types?
9. What transformations can we add? 
10. Can minimalist profile be the core of a more extensive profile template?
11. Should we specifically develop a "ShEx-friendly" version? e.g. https://github.com/johnsamuelwrites/dcap/blob/master/ShExStatements/shexstatements.ipynb

Karen: At F2F in Seoul, came up with Profile 1 (above - "Simple from Hackathon"), then for SWIB19, Tom and I presented a slightly different profile that translates well into the Wikidata idiom of "entity schemas".  Now we need to decide whether we want to move forward with something this simple. Anyone - thoughts on this very simple AP template?  We want to fit it into a single spreadsheet - we hear alot that people use them.

Nishad: Are we going to declare a proper vocabulary for this? Alot of these elements could be re-used for RDF - for SPARQL queries too.  So I could write an RDF doc that expresses the same thing.

Karen: That is point 4.  Brings up interesting question of how to develop moving forward.  Declare as vocabulary, give it URIs.  Would extensions go into this core vocabulary?  But let's begin by looking at the core.

Tom: Agrees. First, figure out those core elements, then talk about URIs.

John: New to this process.

Karen: Want to solidify this simple model. Then we can cycle back and look at core profile again, if things do not work.

Stuart: I understand drive for minimalist profile - and this is appropriate.

Karen: Personally, would like to see something a bit more [expressive].  Ideal: whatever this core turns out to be - would be core of that more extended schema.

Stuart: Worries me how easy it is for people to reinvent the wheel.  Would like to see DCMI take on the somewhat larger vocabulary too.

Karen: My first attempt was to replicate DSP/Singapore Framework - see https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/simpleSchema.csv  - which has some elements [for re-use].  Can we have a decision, for now, about the core?

The biggest difference btw the two models:
* Do we need to be able to identify the "statement".
* Value may need to be a true value, an entity type, or a pick list
* How to specify very detailed types? Allow value type to be any of many different types


Karen: Added the value type: "pick list".

Stuart: 

Nishad: Where would namespaces be declared?

Karen: I wouldn't need to use URIs.

Tom: I think Nishad is asking where in the CSVs the namespace prefixes could be declared, given that CSV standard does not support tabs.

Karen: Some requirements for profiles are quite simple - data entry, etc - that do not involve interoperability.

Stuart: So in some circumstances, URIs needed.

Karen: "Now that we have decided my properties should be in namespaces" - how do we declare those.

Stuart: Use of namespaces must be optional.

John: Is the intention that the entity_name and entity_label, when blank, be filled in?

John: I work with smart people who may not know what "cardinality" means.  People who suddenly find themselves managing a repository. I try to see this from POV of that user.  Because I think that is the core idea of this project.  For me, having column for value be confusing because it changes the table from a table of properties into something more complex. Confusing: "thought this was about the properties, not values".  Thinking about the person who understands properties and that you want to name the thing that the property attaches to.

Karen: [Shows John Samuel properties for Wikidata]: if this were formatted as a table. What will make the difference is good documentation. We need more support - could do rather simply.  Hoping we will not.

Karen: Often, beyond type, need additional things, like pick lists. Not necessarily fit into "value type".

Tom: Need a starter vocabulary, or core, of value types?

Nishad: Different ways to represent pick lists -- implementation-specific options.  If your profile really simple, you can do it in a spreadsheet. If you have more complex requirements, spreadsheet too simple.

Karen: Two diff things happening here. Do we want to give a simple way to give additional info about values?  If that simple way does not work, what do we say to them?  Do we need something more than just ...

Nishad: CSV is just one of the ways to implement.

Karen: Adding a value constraint column could still be done in the tabular format.

Nishad: But if there are more complex scenarios, if you constrain them to a simple format...

Karen: How do you say: A or B or C in a tabular format.  To wrap things up: I'm thinking we have to decide whether properties have to be URIs (I think we said now).  We should write up the one about value type versus value.  Let's meet again in about two weeks - one hour earlier.

ACTION: Tom and Karen to write up re: property URIs and re: value type.

Karen will post Doodle.
