# DCAP meeting Wednesday July 15, 2020 

Time: [14:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP+July+15&iso=20200715T14&p1=1440&ah=1&am=30) 

Zoom Join URL: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84930188478

HackMD agenda: https://hackmd.io/XNRCNrsfTXiwCEvMlOOhFQ

### Minutes of [previous meeting](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020.07.01.dcap_zoom_call.md)

## Participants

1. Benjamin Riesenberg
2. Tom Baker
3. Nishad Thalhath
4. John Huck
5. Karen Coyle
6. Phil Barker


# Agenda
**Discuss draft documents:**

[Vocabulary document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1VVZXRlM-N9-TV9gpQqeVO5HS8XWRFfqGgkPcY8Sft24)

[User document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1P5LCdCgZaKuDWf5pfYndQw0GIiupqmI-WQVNVvuHsIo)

**Coding projects:**

[Tom's](https://github.com/tombaker/csv2shex) 
Phil's ? Others?

What we'll need:
* sample profiles (valid and invalid)
* valid profiles and some instance data? (This would test conversion to shex and validation - how far into this should we go?)
* do we need to create rdf vocabulary NOW? 

## Issues encountered

1. **Defaults**: should we just leave defaults up to the local applications? (Vocabulary)
2. **valueType** and **valueDataType**: both can have values "IRI" (and perhaps BNODE and Literal?) - is this going to be confusing if both columns are used? Is there the risk of conflicts (valueType=IRI, valueDataType=string), and should the vocabulary define rules to prevent this? (vocabulary)
3. **valueDataType** examples: include "xsd:" in the examples, or can this be assumed? Do we want to strictly use xsd datatypes or should we make a default list that has more natural types, like "year"? (User doc)
4. We haven't defined any particular **value constraints**. We did talk about a "value constraint type" (e.g. URIstem [1], regex). Could this be left open, to be internal to applications, or do we need to be more specific? (User doc)

[1] Sinopia uses "useValuesFrom" for this, which may be equivalent and seems more user-friendly than URIstem

## Minutes / selective transcription [jh]

kc: I started writing the User Document and realized I needed to create a Vocabulary document first. The names now are too-alike, and I may change them later. I created a ShExC definition for this to say formally what was in the document.

There are two basic nodes of our structure. There's the entity, if you have one, and then the entity has to have at least one property structure. Or if you have no entities, you have to have a property structure. Whether we call them shapes or structures, I'm not really sure what we should call them. Let's review the comments on the document.

tb: The basic structure you describe seems right, including also the cardinality of the individual elements. Like calling them elements. Quibbles relate to naming. E.g., entity is a thing in the world that we describe with metadata. I think that's a good definition, then the entity shape is the thing in the metadata...-I see it as a cluster of statements. Added the definition of shape by Ruben Verborgh (found in an article of his) to our document. We might reword, but I think we have an opportunity to give a general, readable definition to something which has very technical definitions in SHACL and ShEx. If we came up with a definition, we could distinguish between the entity (the thing being described) and the entity shape, which is the fields and structure of the description of the entity. And then we have the elements of the entity shape and the elements of the description. "Elements" is a little more abstract than "columns" in the spreadsheet and less confusing than "fields." Very few quibbles with the general structure, outlined here, though. Some questions to resolve, though. Such as the label for value constraint (constraint type and constraint value?)

kc: That's if we were going to use two columns, but we haven't fully addressed that. I think we're close to knowing the columns we'll have, we just need their names, then coding projects can go ahead while we [proceed]. tb: Exactly. kc: Any other comments on the docs?

br: Clarifying how kc came to create two docs.

### Entity

kc: Looking at the Simple Application Profile Vocabulary document... "Shape" is a question mark. It's an "entity something." See comments on the doc about this. Labels: our recommendation could be that they would be language strings and therefore could repeat for different lanaguages.[See Note on labels in doc]. If you are processing a profile and you have 2 labels that's not a good thing, but if they are different languages, that's fine.

tb: Phil had a nice definition of entity shape, which I pasted in. ...to define entity shape in terms of the elements used to describe, the fields and structure, the identifiers... I think would tie things together.

kc: "Consists of... these things." tb: Yes.

jh: This is a place where we want to be clear when we're talking about instance data and the application profiles, the definitions.

kc: We actually have 3 things: the profile, the profile instance, and then the metadata instance. I should add that triumverate at the top.

tb: Maybe a nice graphic

kc: And then we need to use the same terms throughout. This is very confusing because we've got meta-meta.

br: You started to go down that road with the note at the top: "this describes the profile..."

tb: I like the idea of making a profile of our profile model, but maybe that could be in a more technical document, expressed in a ShEx schema, for instance. 

kc: yes, I did that. But we might have various ways of defining this. If we could find someone willing to do something like an EDMF (?).

tb: I think we can go pretty far for now just getting the concepts nailed down, things like cardinality expressed in words. Something like ShEx might look a little frightening to put in the "simple application profile!" kc: Yes.

kc: For the elements, we have to say what their cardinality is. What their datatype is. And then we come to the question of defaults.

### Defaults

kc: I'm assuming that we do not have defaults for anything: the entity ID, the entity label...

pb: I think the default for label is whatever's in the base standard that you're starting with. The thing that you're profiling that we haven't decided what to call.

kc: I have a whole section below with that question, which is, since you're reusing vocabulary terms from another vocabulary, are you obligated to carry forward the labels? If you want to go the base vocabulary to get that, that's fine. I don't think we should require that. That may be too much of an effort for some projects.

pb: I still think if an application profile doesn't provide any information about what label to use, then the default is what's defined in the thing that you're profiling.

kc: That would require that you go there.

tb: We could say it in words. Doing it programmatically is a much more complex question.

kc: If we said that's the default, we're requiring it. I don't want to require that. We could say: if you wish, you can make use of it, If we say it's the default, that's what's required in our vocabulary.

pb: I think it goes back to what an application profile is. It places constraints on the vocabulary you're profiling. If you don't place a constraint, then whatever's said by that vocabulary is what stands.

tb: I think we could say that with words. I look at this like instructions for developing software. We could say that, conceptually, if you're profiling a property, and you don't provide a label, the one defined should be used, but to make it a requirement raises the bar for programmers. You'd have to make assumptions about the ways these vocabularies were available. That their labels could be extracted cleanly from the source.

pb: Don't we have those assumptions anyway, though? Data that is valid for the application profile is valid for the specification that you're profiling.

tb: Yes, we can say it in words. I don't think there should be any requirement that a program programmatically go, get the source, extract the label, plug it in as the defaults. That goes too far.

kc: What we're defining here is the contents of our template. If we say the default of the entity label is the label from the vocabulary, that means that that has to be in the template. The person making the profile has to put that label in that label area [column].

pb: No, I think it's the opposite. If the person creating the profile puts nothing in the label column, element, then what should be used is what's in the specification being profiled. It's either that or it's a blank.

kc: The way we're defining it, it's okay to leave it blank.

pb: Yes. If it's left blank, what then get's used?

kc: It could be nothing. You don't need to have an entity and you don't have to have a label for a property. If we say leaving it blank means the program has to go get the label, then there's no way for someone creating a profile to leave it blank.

pb: Let me put it another way. If the program wants to use a label and the field in the application profile is blank, the programmer has to go somewhere to get a label to use.

kc: That's great, because you had an "if" there. There's a difference between an "if" and a default. In the user document, we can say that, but formally I don't think we can require that.

tb: I think I'm agreeing with both of you!

nt: My question is, Entity ID is required property, right?

kc: If you have an entity, ID is required.

nt: And ID is unique.

kc: Yes.

nt: Then if label is not declared, why not use ID as default?

kc: There's a lot of things you can do. What we're not defining here are the things you can do. We're defining the basic rules. The entity shape ID is not a vocabulary term elsewhere. What we've been discussing really applies to properties not entities. There may be no URI out in the world that is the entity.

tb: John [Phil?] I think you're saying, if people want to leave them blank or not specify them, I don't know if there's a difference between specifying it and leaving it blank, or specifying it at all, not including the field at all. I suggest we not go there and consider them equivalent. If people leave it blank, I don't know it's our role to say what the default should be.

kc: What they meant, yeah.

tb: We can have a discussion about different possibilities, but I don't think we should get fancier than that.

kc: The problem is requiring it.

tb: Not requiring it. I agree.

kc: Not requiring it, right. OK, moving on. We have the entity shape, entity label, has to have a label, maybe language string, every entity has to point to a property.

pb: You can't have a profile that says these are the classes you should use?

kc: No, we haven't defined it that way.

pb: You're right, the way we've got it at the moment, you'd need to have to have one property, even if that property is telling you what class it would be. kc: Yes.

### Property Shape (Statement?)

kc: Next we get to the Property shape or Property Statement. PropertyID from an existing vocabulary. There is one per statement unit, I guess we're calling it. It will have to be an IRI, and again there's no default.

pb: In the definition for propertyID, "RDF-based profile" is confusing. It's a "profile of an RDF vocabulary."

tb: One or more. kc: OK, great. Yeah.

kc: Property whatever-we're-calling-it is repeatable.

tb: If you say statement is repeatable that makes more sense. Just "statement," not "property statement." Property statement is part of the statement. Property and the value. Elsewhere you make reference to Property-Value pairs.

pb: Where does this link with Dublin Core Description Set Profiles? I think what we're talking about here is something very similar to a statement template. 

tb: It is.

pb: I'm worried about calling it a statement, because the statements are what you get in the instance data. I think it's very useful if we can use different terms for application profiles and instance data. It's a similar problem with calling it an element, calling the shapes elements.

tb: Statement template is what is used in DSP. That works for me. I think that's what they use in Sinopia.

br: Resource templates and property templates.

kc: So it's a property template?

tb: Property template...

jh: For me it's confusing when shape is used for entity and for property. I don't know if we're going to use shape for entity, but it makes more sense at that level.

tb: If we say that a shape is a set of statements, it makes it strange to say we have a statement shape, because if a shape is a set of statements, it becomes confusing.

pb: [crosstalk]...statement shape, but we could have a shape statement.

tb: That would work. Or statement template.

pb: I do think there's a lot to be said for aligning with the DC Description Set Profile. People are going to look at this as a DC document and expect it to relate to things like the Description Set Profile and the Abstract Model. If we can build off those, I think it will help people understand what it is that we're doing. If not, the first question we're going to get is, can we map this to the Description Set Profiles.

kc: Yep. The problem is that at this point, I don't have an answer for that. I have no idea if you really can. So we have to be careful about not pretending that this is an implementation of the Description Set Profile.

tb: I'm pretty familiar with DSP, and my sense is this is really quite compatible. There might be some differences when you get down to the level of what are the components of a statement template. But this very general thing of having, I think it's called a resource template in DSP, and we're calling it a shape here, and then the statement template, that's really consistent between DSP and what we're doing here.

kc: I have to say, I have a little bit of a problem with template. So, template is our spreadsheet. The physical spreadsheet that people fill in. This is a description of what's in the template. This isn't the template. 

tb: Ben, how does that map with Sinopia and their use of property template?

br: In Sinopia terms, the templates are encoded. Here, if we're talking about the profile definition, in Sinopia terms the templates are the profile instance.

kc: That the user actually fills in.

br: Some do, some don't. That's the JSON document that you load in the tool.

kc: So that's more specific than this. This is kind of the rules behind that.

br: Yes.

kc: So that's why I think we should use something like template for what Ben just described..., our CSV. This is like the rules that make a valid template.

tb: I certainly take Phil's point. We should try to find a way to explain the difference in terminology. We can point to Sinopia and stuff like that [to explain], but we should at least acknowledge the DSP and try to untangle that overlapping terminology. 

kc: Yes. Something came up, which made me think that we will need an explanation document, that is not the user document, for the Dublin Core community, saying why we did what we did, how we did it, how it fits in to Dublin Core. Many people aren't going to care. People who haven't heard of the DSP should be able to understand this, but we need something that explains where this fits in the Dublin Core Application Profile world.

kc: If we can move on.

[Clarifying that "repeatable if a language string" means RDF language string]

kc: We have propertyLabel, mandatory, repeatable. We haven't decided what the values for mandatory and repeatable should be: yes, no, y, n, We could say it could be anything that is boolean, True False... so I gave the datatype as Boolean. This is where I was concerned about defaults, because I'm not sure that we should define a default. My feeling now is that in the absence of a value or of that column,  that the programs implementing this have to have their own defaults defined.

jh: This is where the question came to my mind, earlier in the discussion... Phil's comments were coming from the perspective of the user of a profile that someone has created, so we have users on both ends. If we're thinking of users on both poles, then it could be helpful for a user who's creating a profile to know what a user of the profile is going to expect, if they don't supply something. A question of finding the balance so the user creating the profile is not going to be overwhelmed with technical detail, but also know what to expect: "if I don't supply something, this is how it's likely to be interpretted." But then it's worth thinking about who is going to be using profiles. The creators themselves, who create a profile to clarify things in their own mind, and then they're the main person using the profile, but then there are the people using the instance data, harvesting and so on.

kc: I'm wondering if rather than having a formal default, if in the user documentation we would have recommendations.  It would be recommended, if mandatory isn't there, that you consider it null (?), if it's repeatable, you consider it yes. But if your program wants to decide something else, it can decide something else.

pb: I think the starting point for this should be that instance data that conforms to the application profile must also conforms to the specification that's being profiled and so if there's no data, then it has to be what's in the original specification. In this case we need to go a little  bit further, because if the original specification that's being profiled says that property is not repeatable, then the application profile should not say that it is.

55:00

kc: So, you're assuming that the vocabulary that's being used already defines cardinality.

pb: No, I'm saying that *if* it defines cardinality, then we can't conflict with that definition.

kc: That's true, and I think that becomes an instruction in our user guide. 

pb: But it also affects things like defaults here. [kc: Yes]

pb: Because if the original specification says that a property is not repeatable, then you should not make it repeatable in the application profile. I don't think there's an issue going the other way around. If the base specification says that it is repeatable and you say that it is not repeatable in the application profile, that's not a problem, because the instance data can still conform to both. But you musn't make it possible for instance data to conform to the application profile, but not to the base specification.

kc: Right. We've talked about that [word] in the DSP and other DCAP work. If we go down that road, I don't know how complicated it gets. Like, what is an actual conflict. And this has been talked about quite a bit in this W3C group. Like giving a definition. Dublin Core title has a definition, but what if somebody wants to put down the title of the book? It could get quite complicated. We need to think about that. I have a whole section here... this gets us into the question of how they relate. I could turn out to be quite complicated.

pb: I think we're okay as long as we limit ourselves to thinking about instance data, because, as far as instance data is concerned, it doesn't matter if you decide to call a schema.org name for a book what you would call title. It's in the nature of an application profile, that that would be understood to be not overriding the schema.org label and definition. If you're just saying we've got a label that's more appropriate to the constrained use that we're making of this specification. We're not saying that it's going to be appropriate outside of that specific use.

tb: It's not going to affect the global meaning...

pb: I don't think anyone should be taking an application profile in RDF and merging it with the base specifications and drawing inferences, sameAs, or anything like that. I think that would be very mistaken.

tb: But it's more of a user guide thing, in terms of which document this should go in. Because I'm agreeing with what you're saying.

kc: I'm just afraid of making it formal, because one of the arguments we had in this W3C group is treating profiles as being in an inheritance position vis-a-vis the original vocabulary, or vis-a-vis when a profile is a profile of a profile. And the idea of formalizing that "Inheritance" to me is a black hole. I don't know where we ever get out of that.

kc: I put that down here as a known issue. We should probably discuss it separately.

pb: I have a suggestion for this document, which is that we don't mention defaults at all.

kc: Yes. I was actually arriving at that myself.

tb: I agree with that.

kc: [referring to Note on defaults in document] I said it doesn't make sense to define defaults for any of the properties. If we don't define defaults here, everything is much safer, in terms of going down rabbit holes.

pb: The non-normative user document advice is that, if there's no data, you can go back to the specification that you're profiling.

kc: Right. And we might want to say for individual elements, what the implication might be if it's not filled out.

[general agreement]

kc: We don't have time to go on, but I did want to mention, we have some coding projects that have begun.

Discussion of coding projects: Nishad, John Samuels (not directly related ShEx). Anything translating from our CSV to something more useable.

kc: Want to encourage these, because the details we work out can be folded into those projects fairly quickly. Keep everyone informed, put them where we can get to them. All of us will be asked to create some profile instances and instance data. We want to have a test suite. This brings up the question of developing an RDF vocabulary of our own for the profile elements. We're very close to that. Maybe a mock up one.

tb: coding projects don't depend on the RDF vocabulary. Parallel tracks. We could do things like ShEx, but that's further down the road. No dependency.

kc: It depends on whether the coding projects turn things into RDF.

tb: That's right. But a ShEx profile is not RDF.

kc: But they refer to elements. It would be nice to know what they are. I just mocked it up with EACS (?).

Business portion of meeting ends here.
