
# DCAP meeting Wednesday May 6, 2020 

Time: [14:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP+May+6&iso=20200506T14&p1=1440&ah=1&am=30) 

Zoom Join URL:  https://us02web.zoom.us/j/83699408597?pwd=OEpuR2xKYzZRNnd5cjhFcG95UENtdz09

HackMD agenda: https://hackmd.io/33dG6BttQ8q3H6YFH4G5tw

## Participants

1. Karen Coyle
2. Tom Baker
3. Ben Riesenberg
4. Nishad Thalhath

## Agenda

### Minutes of [previous meeting](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/202-04-22.dcap_zoom_call.md)

### Discussion

Abstract model strawman:
"A profile can have one or more *entities*, each with one or more *statements*." 

Naming and defining:
* [Profile_Entity](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues/60)
  * Definition strawman: "A thing or concept that will be described by the profile."
  * Is the entity described on its own row? Does it have cardinality?
  * Column label: 
* [Property](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues/59)
  * Definition strawman: "The previously defined data element that can be used to describe an aspect of the entity."
  * Column label:
* [Statement](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues/59#issuecomment-623471657)
  * Definition strawman: "The property and value constraints that describe an aspect of the entity."


(Note to kc self: to what does the annotation refer? The entire row? Some element in the row?)

## Minutes

We looked at issue #60 in an attempt to define the term and name the first column of the template. Tom favored "entity shape ID". Nishad hoped that we could find something "non-conflicting". Ben and Karen felt that "shape" was too RDF-y and was not in general use. One option was to add "profile" to the column name, like "entity profile" since the thing being created is a profile.

We also talked about the term "template". Nishad described the template as being like the cookie cutter, whereas what we are trying to define is the nature of the cookie batter, which will eventually be shaped by a cookie cutter/template.

Ben advocated for finding a unifying terminology for the columns, such as adding "profile x" or "x profile" to show that they are part of a coherent unit.  This could address Phil's issue that we want it to be clear that this is not about the instance data.

If adding "profile" to column names is too long we can abbreviate them.

Is the entity just a grouping of statements, or is it a thing in the metadata? What will connect the metadata and the profile? Nishad: the entity is a thing, and the profile connects things to things. 

Nishad: not just a list, the profile *explains*, which is more than a shape. Annotation has a key role in a profile because it makes it an explanation of usage. A shape is a constrainer, not an explainer.

Tom: turn this into a proposal and see what counter-proposals are offered. 
ACTION: Tom will provide a proposal in a document to start this.

### Open Questions

1. Can minimalist profile be the core of a more extensive profile template? (We seem to agree that it SHOULD.)
3. Can the "simple" be used as is, or are more properties needed? (Have we decided "as is"?)
5. Will we want to define URIs for these properties? Do we prefer to use existing DC (or other) terms or AP-specific? 
6. How to define namespaces within a tabular format?
7. How far do we want to take the value definitions? Include more, or leave to developers? What is the optimum "simple" for this? Would we want to include regex formulas in this column?
8. How will we handle multiple values in a single cell (e.g. a pick list of string values)?
9. Can valuetype be expanded to include pick lists, URI stems? Or do we limit to standard value types?
10. How can we include constraints for "recommended" and "mandatory if applicable"?
11. What transformations can we add to our prototypes? 
12. Should we specifically develop a "ShEx-friendly" version? e.g. https://github.com/johnsamuelwrites/dcap/blob/master/ShExStatements/shexstatements.ipynb

