
# DCAP meeting Wednesday April 22, 2020 

Time: [14:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP+April+22&iso=20200408T14&p1=1440&ah=1&am=30) 

Zoom Join URL:  https://zoom.us/j/93381411709

HackMD agenda: https://hackmd.io/uTJ5rvD2QHyyJn2j2-voLA

## Participants

1. Tom Baker
2. Ben Riesenberg
3. Karen Coyle
4. Nishad Thalath
5. Phil Barker
6. John Huck

## Agenda

### Minutes of [previous meeting](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/)

* https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-03-18.dcap_zoom_call.md

### Discussion
* [Nishad's original email](https://lists.dublincore.org/pipermail/application-profiles-ig/2020-March/000163.html)
* [Nishad's corrected email](https://lists.dublincore.org/pipermail/application-profiles-ig/2020-April/000193.html)
* [Nishad's corrected model](https://gist.github.com/nishad/1339d3962002eea3f9282e4ef4b2b09c)
* [Tom's response to first model](https://gist.github.com/tombaker/4c54606ef0dd033b6f306e23764ea384)

## Nishad's Suggestions:

 1. Each record is located on a separate line, as per the RFC4180[7]
2. A common header row and the order of the columns is irrelevant but indicates the components with the profile vocabulary.
3. An optional 'type' row to indicate the type of the record. It is not required in a really simple profiles, or profiles without prefixes or entities.
4. 'type' can be anyone of BASE, prefix, entity, or property. The default is 'property' and falls back to the default if not given.
5. Optional 'ValueType', (Literal, Nonliteral, IRI) default to 'Literal' and mapped to shex:NodeConstraint. This is again an optional row for simpler profiles, But handy for RDF, ShEx, ShExR, and OWL expressions of advanced profiles. *(See below questions 7 and 8, related to this)*
6. 'Value' is optional, and default to 'text' or 'xsd:string'. 'value' can be either just a data type or a ShEx constraint string expressed in ShExC. For example, shex:IRIStem, 'xsd:float mininclusive 3.14 MaxInclusive 9.0' or 'xsd:string ["foo" "bar"]' *(kc: I see shex:IRIStem to be a ValueType, not a Value - maybe not philosophically but as a practical matter. It will be easier to list stems in a column by themselves than with the IRIstem URI in the same column.)*
7. Unified ID for easy conversion to ShEx, RDF, or JSON-LD. Unified ID is better for designing efficient parsers and converters. *(kc: what is "unified id"?)

## Minutes


1. Order of columns is not fixed - headers define columns. This is necessary for various reasons, including:
    1. Only the property ID column is required, so if you have a table with e.g. 3 columns you cannot know which they are positionally
    1. We want people to be able to expand the model to meet their own needs, so they may be inserting columns anywhere it is useful for them
    1. Best practice will be to support the columns in the simple model when present; additional columns are optional and application-specific
1. We have suggested solutions for prefix and namespace:
    1. Columns are added to the template for prefix and namespace, and 
    1. these columns are filled in on rows by themselves; the other cells are left blank
    1. or: the columns for prefix and namespace can be filled in on any row, even those containing entity and property information
    1. discussion: prefixes on their own row, with blanks, make the idea of blanks following entities more difficult to define clearly; prefixes on rows with statements make it seem like the prefix is related to the statement
    1. The general sense was the “on their own row” is a better practice, but not clear if there is a reason to forbid the other solution.
1. Each row is tagged with a type: namespace; entity; property. 
    1. Generally people found this to be potentially harder to explain and to get right, even though it could nicely support programs for transformation from tabular to other formats
    1. ACTION: All: create examples of tables in these various configurations and produce transformation code. We'll look at ease of coding, ease of readability (for humans), accuracy
1. Column headers and definitions
    1. need to nail down the primary elements of the template, their definitions, and their names
    1. ACTION: Karen to create github issues for these, everyone to discuss on github
1. column headers will eventually need to be represented by IRI's, in a namespace hosted by DCMI
1. Will we define "statements" (property + value)?
    1. Currently there is nothing unifying the property/value pair, but this could be a statement even if there is no column for statement. 
    1. Could statements have identifiers so they could be reused?
    1. Argument against: it's easier to read/understand if all information is copy/pasted rather than having a reference to a statement that is defined elsewhere
1. Do we want to define only the very simple template, or should we also define some with additional features that we think are likely?
1. Other questions:
    1. How should multiple values be handled? 
e.g. Multiple labels in different languages would be multiple label columns with "@" language codes, or they could be multiple values in a single cell: "x@en, y@fr"
        1. There will also be questions of multiple values in the value field (multiple IRI stems, multiple values from pick lists)
1. The current simple example has blank cells where entities are repeated. Should these be filled in?
    1. Could be easier to code if all information is included on each row
    1. Could be less easy for humans to read if all cells must be filled in
    1. Would blank cells other than entity cells inherit from prior cells? (That doesn't seem like it because some cells will legitimately be blank, e.g. where no value constraints are included, where no annotations are included)
1. ACTION: Karen to create a github issue asking to discuss list of basic value types

### Open Questions

1. Can minimalist profile be the core of a more extensive profile template? (We seem to agree that it SHOULD.)
3. Can the "simple" be used as is, or are more properties needed? (Have we decided "as is"?)
5. Will we want to define URIs for these properties? Do we prefer to use existing DC (or other) terms or AP-specific? 
6. How to define namespaces within a tabular format?
7. How far do we want to take the value definitions? Include more, or leave to developers? What is the optimum "simple" for this? Would we want to include regex formulas in this column?
8. How will we handle multiple values in a single cell (e.g. a pick list of string values)?
9. Can valuetype be expanded to include pick lists, URI stems? Or do we limit to standard value types?
10. How can we include constraints for "recommended" and "mandatory if applicable"?
11. What transformations can we add to our prototypes? 
12. Should we specifically develop a "ShEx-friendly" version? e.g. https://github.com/johnsamuelwrites/dcap/blob/master/ShExStatements/shexstatements.ipynb


