
# DCAP meeting Wednesday June 17, 2020 

Time: [14:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP+June+17&iso=20200617T14&p1=1440&ah=1&am=30) 

Zoom Join URL: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/84930188478

HackMD agenda: https://hackmd.io/Kfu1O0LDQh6cm-p0S2C-ZA

### Minutes of [previous meeting](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-06-03.dcap_zoom_call.md)

## Participants

1. Karen Coyle
2. Tom Baker
3. Nishad Thalhath
4. Phil Baker
5. Guillermo Facundo Colunga
6. Ben Riesenberg
7. John Huck


## Agenda

# Main questions

Full list: https://hackmd.io/FwhxKv1bSEa605sNw7cD9w?view

Example table: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1pFLYCgHBQgEDliJKUrLYESOYHZJEfV31MeNeEVNuivo/edit#gid=0

## 1. What does "value type" mean?

Proposed: The valid or expected data type of the value in the instance data for that property.

ACCEPTED IN PRINCIPLE

## 2. What does "value" (or "value constraint") mean?
Proposed: Additional constraints beyond the value type. This only needs to be filled in if there are such constraints. Example:

value type = literal
- is fine if any literal string is valid here. Nothing is entered in "value".

value type = literal; value = "red" "blue" "green"
- is needed if not any literal is ok, but must be a choice of one of these specific values

Value constraints must match the type given in value type. 

ACTION: KC to start spreadsheet of value types with documentation of possible values

ACCEPTED IN PRINCIPLE

## 3. Should entity be on its own row?

Advantages: can associated entity itself with:
* cardinality
* comments
* A separate entity row could be a good place to put Subject URI keyword - as in https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues/61#issuecomment-641794396


This implies that the profile is processed from top to bottom.
* We should articulate this assumption somewhere

Might putting the entity ID at the start of each line be an option, if a user feels that this is more readable?

ACCEPTED IN PRINCIPLE

## 4. Does the entity reference need to be a separate column from the value?

If you have a URI/URIstem in the value, and you also need to include more statements about that URI, then you need either to use the URI as your entity ID or you need a separate column for entity IDs/references.
* https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues/61#issuecomment-640082342
* https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues/61#issuecomment-641235009

ACCEPTED IN PRINCIPLE

## 5. Can we decide that URI prefixes and namespace URIs occupy their own columns?
Can they also be entered on a separate csv? Can we present a small set of options?

5 yes
1 no

## Minutes

### Location of namespace declarations

Phil: See it as a usability issue. Familiar to people who know Turtle or JSON-LD, where namespaces are declared at the top. Think that reasons for putting them off to the side are overly fussy.  Rather than having tucked away in one corner - would rather see on separate sheet.

Nishad: Extra sheet in a spreadsheet that will be a separate file, possibly to be saved in a folder with the profile.

Ben: None of the permutations of having in same sheet click for me.

John: CSV expects headers at top. Would be nice to create reference to separate sheet.

Phil: Could provide guidance on the naming of the sheets.

Nishad: Use a default such as default to prefix.cc Projects like Google Refine or Open Refine use prefix.cc. Then a parser can get namespaces from a known source. prefix.cc will help you download prefixes.  But sometimes need to have custom namespaces. If you use a separate file, then it would be good to indicate this with a namespace, such as underscore followed by the file name so it would appear on top.

Remember that even if you use a spreadsheet program to create the profile it will be saved as a csv for processing.

Ben: Scenarios where desirable to have one CSV for namespaces.

Karen: Would we need something in the profile file that links out to the prefix file?

Phil: Related to question of how to provide information about the AP itself.

Karen: Yes, we will need to address how to include information about the profile, including how to link various files that are part of the same profile application. (PROV, PROF came up.)

Nishad: CSVW says: should be in same folder.

DECISION: We will put prefixes elsewhere.

### Beginning discussion about "value type" and "datatype"
Tom: Use of "datatype" is problematic because that refers to some specific technologies. We probably want to define our own types. I see these as triggers for the writers of conversion programs (from the csv to RDF). 
Phil: Rather than defining the term, define a list and say that the value type is one of these. Also, value types and value constraints must be coordinated, that is, they must not conflict.
Ben: Value type "uristem" is a problem because the value must be the value in the instance data, and the instance data will have a URI not a URIstem. So that can't be the type - that has to be a constraint on the type. However, if that is a constraint, where do you put the stem itself?
Tom: And note that a regex is a literal, so if you put a regex in the value constraint column how do you distinguish that from some literal?
John: This brings us back to who is the audience for this? What skill level are we aiming at? Who will be writing the profile? There's a difference between getting your ideas down or creating something that feeds directly into programs.
Karen: The document could have the most simple profile, aimed at someone who doesn't program. Then another section could be other options or extensions. So the simplest is helpful but not constraining, and you can extend.
Tom: And we can end by saying that if you need to do something much more complex than this you should do it in an actual schema, because our tabular format is not suitable beyond a certain complexity.
Karen: If you have a greater skill level then you should do what you can with those skills.
Karen: Not scare the less skilled but not turn away the more skilled.
Phil: Someone mentioned that there is no editor for ShEx. Perhaps we could derive simple ShEx from a CSV problem.
Tom: Template should be an onramp for a ShEx schema. But not expecting round-tripping.
Phil: back to value type: we may need a constraint type column. 
Tom: A valid csv would be just a list of property URIs. Perhaps we could build out from there, and we could present the profile as additive from the simplest to more information. So if you don't need URIstems, you don't need that column.
John: If adding columns means that you reduce the possible number of values in a column, that is a simplification because it's conceptually more logical. Don't overload the meaning of columns.
Nishad: I'd prefer to write a shexC statement as a constraint. It is otherwise a never-ending list of constraints, or we'd need to define a new constraint language!
Ben: I'm beginning to see:
- valueType: URI
- constraintType: URIstem
- constraint: http://viaf.org

How to do lists: 
Karen: just have a space between them, as per ShEx where space is "OR". But we don't have ordered lists.

### Entity on his own row
Karen: Adrian has brought up wanting to say things about the entity, although we aren't sure
exactly what those would be.
Nishad: This is a plus, because there should only be one type of thing per row in CSV standard.
Phil: Only disadvantage is that it means you have to process the CSV from top to bottom to connect the properties to the entity.
Phil: I want to say "use these classes from schema.org" without defining the properties. (see https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues/62)


----

# Open Questions

1. Will we want to define URIs for these properties? Do we prefer to use existing DC (or other) terms or AP-specific? 
6. How to define namespaces within a tabular format?
7. How far do we want to take the value definitions? Include more, or leave to developers? What is the optimum "simple" for this? Would we want to include regex formulas in this column?
9. Can valuetype be expanded to include pick lists, URI stems? Or do we limit to standard value types?
10. Should the entity be on a separate row, or only on the row with properties? (advantages to separate: can include cardinality; can have an entity-specific annotation)
11. How can we include constraints for "recommended" and "mandatory if applicable"?
12. What transformations can we add to our prototypes? 
13. Should we specifically develop a "ShEx-friendly" version? e.g. https://github.com/johnsamuelwrites/dcap/blob/master/ShExStatements/shexstatements.ipynb

### Resolved

1. Can minimalist profile be the core of a more extensive profile template? (We seem to agree that it SHOULD.)
2. Can the "simple" be used as is, or are more properties needed? (We are going with "as is" for now)
3. How will we handle multiple values in a single cell (e.g. a pick list of string values)? ANSWER: For now using ShEx method of space between entries.


