# DCAP meeting Wednesday April 8, 2020 

Time: [14:00 UTC](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DCAP+April+8&iso=20200408T14&p1=1440&ah=1&am=30) 

Zoom Join URL: https://zoom.us/j/875990825 

HackMD agenda: https://hackmd.io/9U145qXMQUCnlUyjqO1YFg

## Participants

1. Tom Baker
2. Karen Coyle
3. Ben Riesenberg
4. Alexis McClimans
5. Phil Barker
6. John Huck


Regrets: 

## Agenda

### Minutes of [previous meeting](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/)

* https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/blob/master/meetings/2020/2020-03-18.dcap_zoom_call.md

### [Nishad's email](https://lists.dublincore.org/pipermail/application-profiles-ig/2020-March/000163.html)

* [Tom's response](https://gist.github.com/tombaker/4c54606ef0dd033b6f306e23764ea384)

## Minutes

*Note: the first few minutes are missing, but generally were a discussion of Nishad's example*
<pre>
TB: question of whether or not to have type column.
Kc: Types are inherent in the column semantics?
Ph: explicit types are better than "duck typing"
Kc: Encoding types may be too techie for AP creators for prefix a namespace
TB: But-there can be more than one on a row
JH: simple version is harder to get wrong
TB: With Nishad's model there are Four of type entity (explicit RDF property)
In property column there is a class.
Ph: Nishad's examples needs to change column titles; it's using value in 2 different ways
TB: We have discussed the separation of value & Value type. Nishad's type "property" is a statement
Ph: The type means: "This statement is about a property". The column "property" could be changed to "referent"
TB: That's pretty abstract. It presupposes that the user understands the terminology. Mine is intuitively obvious.
Ph: we all bring assumptions
TB: the term 'entity'  used in Dc since the 1990's, but of course it has baggage
JH: We decided that a profile could be just a list of properties, so property is primary.
Decision point: will we have referents other than properties?
Ph: simplest model wouldn't meet all use cases -need to be sure what what we design now can also be compatible with more complex needs
TB: Flat structure can only take you so far. Hard to define a more complex structure
using CSV; it gets messy. We need to find a sweet spot between too simple and too complex.
Ph: Our model should go from simple to complex in a series of steps. Simplest cases would still look very simple.
kc: note:[Content DM is a simple case with only Dublin Core and virtually no constraints, and is relatively heavily used.]
TB:-Even simplest has questions, like URIs or just labels? Can't combine property and property Label.
Kc: Our formalism (that we decided on) says that only property is required, not the label.
TB: could property be a string like "year of publication"?
Kc: Yes, if your software is happy with that
JH: We should be able to say it can be PROPERTY  or LABEL, and a label would
be a string value, property a URI
TB: I agree
Kc: It's not clear how to add this to the formalism - how to add 'OR' to profile template
although this could be done in ShEx. I personally would like a more ample approach beyond the very simple one, e-g. the original DSP. We need to take the simple one & see if it is compatible with a more complex
Ph: some user of an entity can have different properties depending on how entity is used
KC: There is an example in Nishad's with two uses of dct:date
TB: I think of it as in the context of the entity - the entity provides a context for the
property
Kc: (thought) But this means that only one use of
a property per entity
TB: Given an e.g. of teacher, housekeeper, doctor - all are persons, but person is too broad for the use. However, how do you say that these are persons, if you need to?
Kc: There may be a need to address efficiency. There also seems to be an assumption of context and structure
TB: Filling in entity column would allow you to mix up rows without losing context.
Kc: We Need to make explicit that entity provides structural context
TB: Date property is the same in both rows in Nishad's example, but the entity/ property pair is different.
</pre>

## Nishad's Suggestions:

 1. Each record is located on a separate line, as per the RFC4180[7]
2. A common header row and the order of the columns is irrelevant but indicates the components with the profile vocabulary.
3. An optional 'type' row to indicate the type of the record. It is not required in a really simple profiles, or profiles without prefixes or entities.
4. 'type' can be anyone of BASE, prefix, entity, or property. The default is 'property' and falls back to the default if not given.
5. Optional 'ValueType', (Literal, Nonliteral, IRI) default to 'Literal' and mapped to shex:NodeConstraint. This is again an optional row for simpler profiles, But handy for RDF, ShEx, ShExR, and OWL expressions of advanced profiles.
6. 'Value' is optional, and default to 'text' or 'xsd:string'. 'value' can be either just a data type or a ShEx constraint string expressed in ShExC. For example, shex:IRIStem, 'xsd:float mininclusive 3.14 MaxInclusive 9.0' or 'xsd:string ["foo" "bar"]'
7. Unified ID for easy conversion to ShEx, RDF, or JSON-LD. Unified ID is better for designing efficient parsers and converters.

### [Example](https://gist.github.com/nishad/1339d3962002eea3f9282e4ef4b2b09c)


Type|ID|Property|Label|Mandatory|Repeatable|ValueType|Value|Annotation
----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|----|
BASE|.|http://dcap.example/ap/example-01/|    |    |    |    |    |
prefix|dct|http://purl.org/dc/terms/|    |    |    |    |    |
prefix|foaf|http://xmlns.com/foaf/spec/|    |    |    |    |    |
prefix|xsd|http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema#|    |    |    |    |    |
prefix|sco|http://schema.org/|    |    |    |    |    |
entity|book|sco:Book|Book|    |    |    |    |
property|creator|dct:creator|Author|y|y|nonliteral|@person|Author is not required; no limit on the number
|title|dct:title|Title|y|n|literal|xsd:string|Each book must have a title
|pubDate|dct:date|Year of publication|y|n|literal|xsd:year|"Only the year| 9999"
entity|person|sco:Person|Person|    |    |    |    |
property|name|foaf:Name|Name|y|n|literal|    |Each person has one name
|email|foaf:mbox|Email|n|y|IRI|    |Email is optional but only one allowed
|birthDate|dct:date|Birth date| n|y|literal|xsd:date|"Date of birth YYYYMMDD"


### Open Questions

1. Can minimalist profile be the core of a more extensive profile template?
3. Can the "simple" be used as is, or are more properties needed?
5. Will we want to define URIs for these properties? Do we prefer to use existing DC (or other) terms or AP-specific? 
6. How to define namespaces within a tabular format?
7. How far do we want to take the value definitions? Include more, or leave to developers? What is the optimum "simple" for this?
8. Can valuetype be expanded to include pick lists, URI stems? Or do we limit to standard value types?
9. What transformations can we add to our prototypes? 
11. Should we specifically develop a "ShEx-friendly" version? e.g. https://github.com/johnsamuelwrites/dcap/blob/master/ShExStatements/shexstatements.ipynb

### Resolved

1. Shall we complete this minimalist profile? RESOLVED: YES (Feb 18)
2. Do properties have to be URIs? (RESOLVED: no (Feb 18)) (Because we resolved earlier that URIs are not required, a separate property label" would not be required. (We questioned this later.))
4. RESOLVED: Profile can be less than simple template (entities, properties, values). (March 3)
5. RESOLVED: That the most minimal profile could consist of a list of properties.
6. ACTION: To develop definitions for the elements of the simple profile model (as a document in Github).  (Tom will give John and Alexis access to the repository.) Karen will create initial document.
7. RESOLVED: The simple template will have both value type and another column for value constrains.

Karen: Nishad's example puts prefixes into the spreadsheet.  He adds a column, 'type', and one type is prefix.  Tom has made a counterproposal.
