# DC TAP meeting Thursday,  16 March, 2023

###### tags: `dctap meetings` 

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/vXcsJpbFRXCiZeKCrz0OcA

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20230316T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants

* Tom, Phil, Karen, Nishad


## Announcements
* news item sent to webmanager for posting (March 13)

## Agenda


* Tab-delimited vs CSV - python program needs a command-line switch?
    * *Answer: Tom will look at how best to do this in python program; there may be a sniffer function; might work in config file.*
* Display question [issue #91](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/91)
    * *Yes, separate lines for shapeID and shapeLabel is ok. Add some examples to cookbook; also one with shapeID on every row*
    * *Change close/start in readthedocs to ID and label, because close/start are not in primer*
    * *Tom: open/closed is problematic, shouldn't be in base model. Closed is difficult in SHACL*
    * *KC: include closed in cookbook? Hard to define - could be on shape, statement or even property*
    * *Tom: do this in sections on shex and shacl.* 
* SRAP DCTAP and new [issue #90](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/90) - IRI stems for propertyID
    * *Do we want to allow propertyID stem in DCTAP? Currently would fail on URI check in python*
    * *Tom: should be part of user guidelines. Not everything can translate directly to validation.*
    * *Phil: this is a different level of validation; can imagine a way to say: these are the vocabularies we recognize. But then you get into the question of open/closed. Also, how would you constrain them?*
    * *Say that this is part of user guidance. All of DCTAP can go into shex or shacl. But not all of shex or shacl can be expressed in DCTAP.*

*Phil: shacl has property shapes that are modular in nature - treated the same in each instance. Also comes up in shex and yaml. Would eliminate repetition in the dctap.*
*Tom: could this be done in an analysis of the table? Phil: that sounds complicated.*
*phil: maybe a free-floating property statement but not in a shapeID.*
*kc: python program assumes everything in a shape*
*phil: I can process the default shape as being free-floaters. Possibly default DCTAP shape would be interpreted as a set of property shapes in shacl.*

Time for next meeting: keep same UTC time?
