# DC TAP meeting Thursday, February 2, 2023

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/GndT4gM2R2Kt6WOlBUmDpw

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20230202T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants

* Karen, Tom, Phil, John

## Agenda

* Changes made to [web site page](https://hackmd.io/qpBNn0dbR_ypypgLHX4BYw). Should be ready to go. Links in documents need to be changed to web site links (now are .io) Cookbook should remain .io, however
* [Announcement and blog post](https://hackmd.io/xStNjvZESJOYTwu6-CoshA) - in progress

## Minutes

3 documents are ready to go onto web site. Have links that need to be changed to web site versions. KC will describe this in an email to Nishad at webmanager@dcmi.org.

phil: are these drafts for comment?
all: No, okay for them to be community specifications. (Change made to Primer during meeting)

tom: 'about this document' - links to where to comment if there are any. We've made this available for a while.

tom: put about this document first, then follow with table of contents. Call it 'about this specification'. Add brief description from 'about' page. Also, use better set of links to other documents (from 'about' page). 

Future work:
* Cookbook, and extending TAP
    * phil: we have AND and OR but not NOT
    * add min/max cardinality prominently in Cookbook
* programs - Tom: working on the shex converter. Will attend shex meeting in 10 days
    * from dctap to shex can be a way to learn shex because you see the shex syntax as the output. shex could become the 'source of truth' rather than dctap, but dctap starts as that
* phil: projects that are generating shacl. 
    * Could we engage with the SEMIC folks to use dctap instead of UML? Feedback is that using UML leads people down object-oriented road, and that isn't necessarily what people really intend. 
    * Also working with IEEE on learning data, and will show them a dctap
    * may be working on a schema management tool, and it may be based on a TAP, along with other functions.
* John, thinking about XML and Datacite. (kc: may need to be a separate document because could be long: moving from XML to TAP). John mentions the MODS standard. For some, use case for XML is stronger than use case for RDF. 
    * Also, some ideas about geo data

Next meeting: Tom can report back on Basel meeting. 
