# DC TAP meeting July 21, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/wIWlfRknR1yoflNu0oQAlQ

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20210721T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))



## Participants
* Karen Coyle
* Tom Baker
* Phil Barker
* John Huck
* Nishad Thalhath

## Agenda

* Review [LD4 presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14mw_F5G3j76acR1Dz-TpvqsQb2tV-1yfqyiHe7dMqjM/)
* Begin discussion of [issue 41](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/41) on multiple values

## Minutes

Karen: DataCite working on a TAP. Chose to create a separate sheet for each shape. We need to think again about how shapes could be combined.

Phil: There are different sheets for different shapes, but also different sheets with different functions, like admin data, URI prefixes, etc. If it has a propertyID it is a TAP.

Karen: we will need different headers for the different sheet functions

Karen: reviewing presentation. Need some sample data that people can run through dctap-python because there is nothing you can do with the program without data. I will create some examples.

John: Some developers call those "fixtures" - that go along with the program.

Phil: use this as the file name on the dctap-python example on the readme

**Issue 41 - multiple items in a cell**

Phil: whatever can appear in instance data you want to allow. But even for others it could be useful, like different languages. This may not work when you have a lot of languages, but if you only have a few it could work. Even for propertyID, it could be that you accept more than one, and they all follow the same rules. For value you can have options. Tom said that the primer only allows values for picklist. But we shouldn't preclude options.

Tom: I basically agree, but my concern is that we would need to use the config file to say whether to expect a list. DCTAP model should describe a minimal application. If we say it can be a list then everything becomes a list. That is inconvenient for processing downstream. Or downstream have to expect either and then need to test for it. This could be in the manifest (dctap-python config is a beginning only). 

Phil: That's one way. I wouldn't mind treating everything as a list. A manifest would also work. The specification shouldn't rule out this option - leave this to implementations.

Karen: How difficult would it be when you get a CSV from excel, which puts quotes around values with commas to determine if you have multiple items?

Phil: Most programming languages have modules that can handle this. You have to know what the separate is.

Karen: create list in first program (e.g. dctap-python) or pass values through to next application?

Tom: there are many spreadsheet dialects. Don't want that the value of any column could be a list or a single value. Puts burden downstream. Could make everything a list, makes it more difficult for writers of simple applications because have to process all values as lists.

Tom: need to decide which columns can have multiple values. 

Phil: manifest is part of software you are writing, but isn't part of the spec. spec needs to say which can be lists. spec should be agnostic on how that should be handled in a program.

Karen: need to separate model and software. model should have as few constraints as possible. people can develop software to do what they need.

Nishad: the model is not a specification - the model allows a lot of variation. But that means that we could have a lot of different outputs that aren't compatible. We still need a manifest - especially for anything that is beyond the very basic model. All of the other is specification.

Karen: manifest would define content of cells beyond the basic model. We would need to define the manifest specification

Nishad: model needs to be simple; manifest covers customization

Tom: we need to describe what a manifest does; leave it to implementers how to do it. Give a few examples. Config file is an example. Manifest can be where you declare extra columns. need to define: What are the extension points?

(Discuss later whether allow aliases. - **Do issue**)

Phil: extension but also constraints. what do you need to clarify for applications?

Nishad: we also talked about the separator value. 

Phil: it's more complicated if you want to provide multiple language values. Need a way to separate language indicator from string, and then language string sets from each other.
(**issue**)

Karen: some of this might be cookbook

Tom: things can always be passed downstream as strings. keep model simple. need to decide which elements can take multiples

Karen: multiple applies to the entire column

**which cannot be multiples**
* shapeID
* mandatory
* repeatable
* valueConstraintType
(**DO: modify vocab document**)

Nishad: made different columns for different languages - very hard to put all in one column

Phil: may want different sheets for different languages

Karen: those could be different TAPs

Phil: valueconstrainttype cannot be multiple.

Nishad: shex can do complex types.

Karen: we can allow actual shex or shacl code in the valueConstraint; type could be "shex" or "shacl". But need some examples because of how shex and shacl do paths to actual values.

Tom: need caution; distinguish extensions from basic model

Nishad: bare model must be interoperable. Any TAP should be parsable by any TAP parser. 

Tom: pass through to next step. Be agnostic about anything not in our base set.

Phil: re:shapeID - if we say that shapeID is mand/rep then it becomes like propertyID. Then you have the option of saying: it has to be one of these.

Karen: how to do manifest?

Tom: see comment in #41. Listed there.

Karen: do we pass all through as single values? Is model silent on multiple values?

Tom: we've defined 3 of 4 valueconstrainttypes as lists in primer. so that doesn't need to go into manifest. value is string unless declared otherwise in manifest. 

Phil: model should not say how it should be implemented, e.g. what programming types should be used. You could say a string is a list of characters.

Nishad: no datatyping in CSV - everything is a string. List is an implementation. 

Karen: Cookbook could have examples

Tom: does anyone disagree that picklist should be output as a list?

Phil: that's an implementation choice; could be a list, but that's not the only way. 

Nishad: there can be customization of constraint types - such as default values. 

Nishad: if it says picklist then it needs to be a list

Karen: do we need a specification beyond the primer? Could that be the vocabulary document? (**DO: add to vocab the ones that cannot be different values** Note that cardinality refers to how many columns. then another column for how many items in a column. Also, need to figure out how to say that singular statement is plural.)

Nishad: need two things: separator and escape character. 

(If comma is separator, commas in notes would need to be escaped. But notes may be created by non-tech staff.)

(**Add tom's list to manifest issue**)

Phil: specify manifest abstractly. 

Nishad: need a working file name

Karen: when define local columns, may also want to define 
