# DC TAP meeting Thursday, October 14, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/p9FuJlqPQQiHcgQTvUon4Q

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20211014T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))

**Present**

* Phil, Karen, Nishad, John.

## Agenda 

Recently closed issues:

* [Aliases](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/43)

Due for closing:

* [TAP for XML](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/48) 
* [RDF ranges](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/37)
* [Wikidata qualifiers in DCTAP?](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/43)

For discussion:

* Priorities for next steps
* [Cookbook](https://hackmd.io/V3LGdBdxTrOid57M2wJUlw) In progress
* Issue: [min/max](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/50)
* Issue: [Same property, multiple rows](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/51) 
  * ["Tap with repeated properties" examples](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1whGvaDwLY4FhI2AkktFkGdXvNjwZSqV0mkcff75fR4k/edit)
  * ["Shapes and cardinality" examples](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RxjnBM6WnnfWrVMJmAHI83CR_gvWC7Qw9g6mS-I9iio/edit)

## Notes

* TAP for XML can be closed. We know that there are limitations. 
* RDF ranges can be closed. Phil said there is another way of handling this, which we can put in the cookbook. Phil's approach is to use rdf:type as the property of the shape.
* Wikidata qualifiers. Nishad: what if there is a qualifier and a constraint? Karen: Wikidata treats qualifiers as properties in their RDF - gives them a different namespace. See example in issue #18 and wikidata examples in Examples folder in github. (Means this can be closed, but we should reach out more to WD community.)
* Priorities for next steps.
    * Tom's suggestion that we freeze further additions and consolidate what we have now. The group agreed with taking this course of action.
    * kc: also agree but we need to keep testing against real examples to learn how it holds up
* Karen: the cookbook is in a bit of a messy state. Karen will be cleaning up. Let her know if there are things we need to consolidate from our issues on gitHub, etc. It's in HackMD now. It could go into gitHub if we wanted.
* Phil: 2 sections? Recipes and Methods. This is seen in other cookbooks. Example: How to handle a situation where one of two properties is required in recipes. The way to handle multiple values in a cell would be in the method section.
* Karen: maybe show more examples; more "non-problem" things (although some in the primer)
* Nishad: look at Linkml documentation, e.g. how to model in linkml
* Karen: Outstanding question: should we create a vocabulary for the TAP? Tom should be part of this conversation, so will put this question aside for now.
* ACTION: Karen review primer and vcoabulary to see if they need changes
* Min Max question: Extensions? Or in Cookbook? They are complex. 
    * ACTION: Karen, make min/max into 3 issues
    * can we come up with value constraints for these?
* Same property, multiple rows issue. Question: Should we incorporate the tables that spell out validation?
* karen did some tables to try out validation situations
* phil: but we do want to convert to shex and shacl
* karen: yes, but how complex do we want to get? It would require some formal logic for various situations - but is that a good idea? In many cases, decision about validity would be outside of the TAP; we wouldn't make validation decisions 
    * Phil: does the constraint relate to the property or to the row?
    * karen (channeling Tom) - the concept of statement; the row is a unit
    * Phil: referencing his gitHub comment: is the constraint on the row or the property, specifically in the context of mandatory and repeatable characteristics? If M/R apply to only the presence of a property, then it makes no sense to have repeated rows in the TAP. Need to clarify M/R definitions.
    * karen: it would be great to have instance data to try this out
    * phil: build out some of our models, like the book catalog
    * karen: hard to find actual data that can be done with TAP - most is more complex than this
    * phil: and it gets very big; we need toy data
* John: yes, TAP would be actually useful for the Datacite data. Able to create a tabular format. A tree is different from a table; issue is that there is M/R obligation on every level of the tree. What I did felt accurate; not clear if anyone will use it, but it can be done. Also, different results if you start from XSD or from human documentation; depends on what you need
* kc: Nishad, maybe that could be in the article - starting from documentation vs a schema. This shows you two different uses for TAP
* Karen emphasizes need to create more examples. Shows the DCAT example. Will update and look at SHACL file for DCAT-AP
* Discussion about priorities and about recognizing and confirming the current limits of the TAP model. We found that XML can be expressed, but there are multiple ways of doing it. It is quite different. So we might put it out of scope for the moment. say we investigated and moved on for the moment.
* John: what I did was a schema in a table - which is a first step in creating a tabular profile. Also, there is often more than one way to render XSD in TAP - we should probably have a prefered way or best practices. That would be useful
* karen: explaining XML-> TAP could be a long document, but we should do it. And do it before we forget this recent exercise
* phil: think of priorities; perhaps best to use DCAT to show utility; XSD requires more work and may not be the first priority. We should think about JSON
* ACTION: John to write up his thoughts about XML before he forgets!
* john: agree to put XML to the side because it isn't straightforward
* karen: but we can show that we have thought about it
* phil: agree that where there is more than one way to do something we should recommend one or at least have a good description of pros and cons
* nishad: this is mainly a modeling issue because TAP is a triple-modeling model. For any other format we have to remodel them into RDF and then put them in TAP
* karen: the human documentation fit very well into TAP; better than the schema view. Maybe we can emphasize that TAP is aimed mainly at humans. It's not a data processing model
* 
