# DC TAP meeting Thursday, September 30, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/MODsjkosRFqX3LZd32BDAg

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20210930T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Agenda:

* Article?
* [Manifest table](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1uCPcY6RJI3MhVt0xR5TDykL6ayRj-FRzuIm0QQQSYRU/edit#gid=0) needs input
* [min/max](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/50)
    * Do we need to separate cardinality from the others, and consider changing mandatory/repeatable?
    * Can we turn the others into constraints?
        * min/max string length
        * min/max numerical value ([DataCite example](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1e7yupArUDdCEg-MtHp78x9Aq9B3q-6oU/edit#gid=1531062466))
    * What do we do when both min/max and other constraints are desired?
    * [XML schema terms](https://www.w3.org/TR/2004/REC-xmlschema-1-20041028/structures.html#p-max_occurs)
* [Same property, multiple rows](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/51)
    * This gets us into "OR" and "AND" territory. Should we go there?

## Minutes

kc: look at manifest as table and comment or create a new sheet with your ideas

tom: this is rather self-referential. I was thinking of the manifest as property/value pairs but you put them into groups

kc: there are elements that aren't simple pairs, like TAP column name and replacement column name. These need to be kept together in groups of two k/v pairs

**min/max discussion**

kc: probably shouldn't be a single issue. 
* min/max cardinality
* min/max length of string
* min/max numerical value

kc: min/max cardinality is more complex because interacts with our cardinality columns

tom: hoping that at some point we would take position that we have our core dctap model and everything else is an extension. Would these be extensions?

kc: first see how they could be handled

phil: min/max for cardinality is an alternative for columns that we already have so it wouldn't make the table larger. The others are possible constraints so they wouldn't add columns

Karen: DataCite needed min/max of values for geographic area. Puts both in valueConstraint (this could be a pattern). But this requires multiple values in a cell, which in the past we have treated as "OR", plus need separator. 

tom: a specific type of value constraint

Phil: this expresses a range. these aren't alternatives. One option is using two columns, another is to use a range, but there isn't a set standard for specifying range

kc & tom: two columns for each: min/max value & min/max length

Columns: 
* minimum length/maximum length
* minimum value/maximum value

Phil: Why would we add columns if we have "Value constraint type"? Or use two rows, one for min one for max. How do the rows go together?

tom: any reason to avoid adding extra columns?

phil: if you are adding columns for value constraints, why have the value constraint column?

tom: hmmm

kc: if we use value constraint for this, then for that property you can't have any other value constraint

tom: I would rather see additional columns than a value type/constraint that is complicated to parse

phil: not complicated, just min/max

kc: but what would be the separator?

phil: I like the idea of repeating rows, one for min one for max

kc: multiple rows - what does this mean

phil: treat rows as independent of each other; all constraints apply

kc: that isn't "independent" to me

tom: +1 to kc

phil: each row represents a separate constraint and these add up as you process the tap

phil: there is no way to say that something is *not* allowed

kc: that was what we discussed in open/closed 

phil: only the properties list would be allowed

kc: validate on an entire statement constraint

kc: we've been assuming closed. Manifest could have open/closed

phil: mandatory means it must be present. But problem with SHACL where two wrongs can make a right. I haven't checked in SHACL's open/closed

kc: the 'or' and 'and' can get complex and there can be conflicts

tom: we shouldn't try to replicate the work of creating a formal language like shex, shacl. maybe we shouldn't try to formalize, instead say that our model does not have formal semantics. If you want formal semantics, use other model

phil: I sympathize, but I haven't come across an AP that doesn't have some of these complications. These are very common

kc: some of this could be done with shapes. however, if you want a subject shape what do you use for the propertyID on the row that defines the valueShape? Can't use dct:subject on both. We don't have a way of creating a shape without using a propertyID

kc: example is from BIBFRAME - they have bf:subject that can be either a literal or an IRI, and if it is an IRI then it has to have a IRIstem. you can't do that on a single row because the IRIstem only applies to one. You could have two rows, but they can't both be mandatory, and subject itself is mandatory.

tom: and and or pushes the limits of the basic model, and I don't want this in the basic model.

phil: 	(ttl eg)
<> dct:subject [ dct:subject "History"; dct:subject <http:://example.org/subject/history> ] .
<> dct:subject "History", <http:://example.org/subject/history> .

phil: do this not as a shape, but have 3 rows. One has dct:subject as mandatory; the other two are the two non-mandatory options.

tom: wonder what shex and shacl do with this? does it translate?

phil: it translates to shacl

tom: semantics of dctap model may vary if you are expecting to translate to shex and shacl

phil: if table is closed, then that excludes bnode. If we change to min/max instead of mandatory/repeatable then you could say bnode is zero min which would forbid it

kc: min/max zero usually means "not defined". (using xsd as example)

phil: max zero? that should mean not allowed

kc: generally there isn't a way to say "not allowed". That's a difference between defining metadata and defining a validation schema.

phil: saying closed means rejected data that has extra elements, and I don't want to do that

Tom: what do you close? shape? profile? It should be possible to do this downstream.

kc: need to separate out the different kinds of min/max. XML schema has some useful min/max terms. Also, we need to do some walk-throughs of tables with multiple properties.

phil: I'm writing something that reads a profile and converts it to shacl. Right now it's not using TAP, but I hope to. My program uses a data class, not a python dict. And I treat everything as lists, not strings.
