# DC TAP meeting September 1, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/IGwlRGvZQtGAoDvv7wiLiw

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20210818T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants
* John Huck
* Phil Barker
* Tom Baker
* Karen Coyle

## Agenda

* TAP for XML
  * [John's DataCite table](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1E20DZtXsE7fvZWH9tcq-Yx4D3KoFSyl1PeJvLrafhFs/edit#gid=0)
  * [The original DataCite table](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1e7yupArUDdCEg-MtHp78x9Aq9B3q-6oU/edit#gid=2143218249)
  * [Karen's table](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1-rhWWTj23p1KIwpf3oTaTRg2UDSsNzYTvFARfrBObB8/edit#gid=90095205)

## Minutes
<pre>
kc: how or if to create TAP for XML data

kc: DataCite data is a long-lived XML schema. DataCite person created one sheet per shape. Our attempts omitted "related item" which is long and complex.

john: related item wasn't in the schema document. I started from the XSD and the imported documents. Importeds are enumerated values. There is also the documentation (probably for people). That document doesn't include wrapper elements that are in the XSD. Working from XSD is creating basis for profile of XSD schema, if that is what you want to do. But how could you define additional constraints for your profile?
You would want to know what the enumerated values are and what the XSD rules are.
Added comments on the cells.
Main problem is how to deal with nesting - XSD has nesting, RDF does not.
Decided to limit all elements and attributes to the property ID column, so shape ID is totally outside the XML. 
Next problem is: when to create a new shape. If a wrapper element contained more than one element I created a shape for that. There weren't many.
E.G. title - takes character string so needs to be in main shape.
Problem with situations where you would end up with same shape for shape and for an element.
Every element and attribute has its own row, and its own cardinality.
kc: "sequence" means "repeatable"?
john: yes. sequence means that it contains something. 
kc: I created a shape for everything you have as a sequence; and they don't all have actual names in the XSD so I made some up.
Tom: This is jumping in at the deep end of XML. Wondering whether there is a distinction between 1) to generate an XML schema from a DCTAP instance and 2) to map an XSD to an RDF representtion.
kc: What next?
phil; try oai-pmh's DC terms
john: this was an exercise; I was able to represent everything. Could be the basis for a next step.
kc: have sent all of our work to some DataCite representatives.
This is the schema not an application profile. they have people using their schema but in a form of applicaton profile (albeit not expressed in that way). I did try a profile by simply grabbing some rows from the full table. 
john: problem with wrapper elements, sometimes those had the cardinality, not the elements themselves.
kc: this is a general question, the question of cardinality on the row that "calls" a shape and then the cardinality of the elements in the shape. If the shape is mandatory but all of the elements are optional you could have an empty shape.
john: this also is complicated with repeatability. 
kc: what if a DataCite profile gives elements but does not include wrappers? Some folks may be working in Dublin Core so they aren't working in the XML of the XSD.
phil: AP has to be consistent with what it is profiling. Perhaps all doesn't have to be included in TAP as long as ingesting program can bring elements in correctly.
kc: Maybe can treat these elements as atomistic, and it would be brought into the XSD with the structure.
phil: problem XSD not atomistic, so you could run into problems.
kc: some users here are using DC terms, so likely they are not using the XML structure.
john: next step - add a sheet with a slimmed down version, just to see if it works. Then add from the DataCite attempt.
kc: this has min/max inclusive as a value constraint, which looks like a good way to do min/max. We've talked about adding min/max as constraint types, but this gets them into a single cell.
phil: breaks our multiple items in a cell, which are alternatives (OR)
tom: how comma is interpreted could depend on the value constraint type
kc: pattern = regex and those can have all kinds of characters. This min/max is two separate values that are needed
phil: alternative - shacl has minlength, could be length range which would include both min and max
kc: nice thing about DataCite table treatment of min/max is that it is exactly how they make use of it and code it; it doesn't need to be re-interpreted.
phil: could also use pattern/regex. What people will want to use will depend on their applicaton target.
tom: another way would be to create new columns for min/max length
kc: unfortunately you may be adding a whole column for something that is only used in one property.
john: xml schema has types all over the place. I used the valueType column to copy in the types from the XSD. Can restrict built-in types. Can be a hierarchy of types. E.G. non-empty string with min length 1. do we wanto to make a distinction between bilt-in tapes and modified or enhanced types?
ACTION: John, create something simpler.
kc: don't get too hung up on XSD, but keep playing with non-RDF data as a way to understand how TAP can be used.
</pre>
