# DC TAP meeting June 23, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** [https://hackmd.io/Wnmud_CzQ9ifEzoaTcrtrg](https://hackmd.io/lQ-I0bKzQmCwl78xtgWfDw)

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20210623T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))



## Participants
*

## Agenda

### Decisions from last meeting
* structured <p style="color:red">YES</p>
* start? <p style="color:red">NO</p>
* shape if only properties? <p style="color:red">YES</p>
* check column headers? <p style="color:red">YES</p>
    * pass through those not TAP? <p style="color:red">YES</p>
    * give message for those not TAP? <p style="color:red">WARNING </p>(because this could be a typo)
* check values in valueNodeType? <p style="color:red">NEED TO DECIDE </p>
* check valueConstraintTypes? <p style="color:red">NEED TO DECIDE</p>

From github issues:
* Let column headers be case insenstive [issue 29](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/29)

### Where "we" are with the program
* https://dctap-python.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
* output to file on command line 
* 

## Other notes
Phil: yes to case insensitive; only the initials need to be there

kc: need to look again at value datatype, value constraint, to see if we are satisfied with the ones we have

phil: this will be difficult; but there are lots of datatypes out there

kc: yes, as long as folks using profile understand. ADD TO COOKBOOK

nishad: it outputs json and yaml; either to screen or pipe to other program or send to file. And messages can go to screen or log

kc: what do we need to do next?

nishad: we need practical use cases and/or adoptions. we will have a library that other programmers can use.

kc: srap may be a good use case

phil: dctap for credentials organization agency. Wanted to make it fit with SHACL validation, so added columns and sheets

kc: having separate definition of shapes does seem to be needed. How to connect shape sheet to property sheet

Phil: (begins sharing) Shapes have a sheet with their own labels and comments, plus the severity for validation. In property sheet can have dropdown for shapes. ditto valueNodeTypes. Another shape is for metadata about the tap and the prefixes.

kc: may use this example because the BIBFRAME folks are using SHACL

kc: we still need to figure out how to do prefixes. 

nishad: this is in the program has defaults and can be configurable. We do need to figure out what the defaults will be if no local configuration is provided.

kc: (shows config module) Need something more human friendly. What else do we need to configure - column headings have been mentioned. Tom wants short forms; maybe this should be in the configuration file

Phil: APs - Nancy HobelHeinrich doing APs for RDA (research data). For training materials for research data.

kc: Also in SRAP doing DataCite in TAP

Phil: Feedback from draft?

kc: No. Assume people don't have time to read - best to do conferences and webinars

Nishad: use case: Need multi-lingual labels. Doing "propertyID, propertyID-jp". (With EN as default.) In YAML these are keys. COOKBOOK

kc: in RDF you could use "@xx" and put them in a single cell.

Nishad: that gets messy because labels can be long, can have spaces, etc. This way has been easier to parse. Also need multi-lingual notes.

Nishad: how to align with other "profile" packages, e.g. Frictionless data specification
frictionlessdata.io. Have a lot of tools, validation tools, etc. We have some datasets already published in this package. Uses some of the same terms as DC TAP.

ISSUES: config and prefixes
 -- multi-lingual content (labels and notes)

Can close issues #28, #30, #32, #33



