# DC TAP meeting April 14, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/tKE7fYVhS8GW11ISPPTnTg

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20210414T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))

### [Resolutions from previous discussions](https://hackmd.io/tjFOwoqqTIid4jtfmVzkLg)

## Participants
* Karen Coyle
* Tom Baker
* Phil Barker
* Ben Riesenberg
* Nishad Thalhath
* John Huck

## Agenda
* OK [final draft](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/blob/kcoyle-patch-2/TAPprimer.md) of primer (see [minutes of previous meeting](https://hackmd.io/k7TsgsfCSSGEWm9wm3BgGQ))
  * Changed title
  * added "keywords" for valueNodeType
  * added text about commenting, other documents
* Remaining questions
  * example with xsd:anyURI? https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/20
  * nothing about multiple options in a cell (see https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/12#issuecomment-795863555) Is this cookbook material?
* OK [final draft](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/blob/kcoyle-patch-2/TAPvocabulary.md) of vocabulary document

## Other topics
* Where to document/test validation code?
* New issues: label for next version? 
  * Options for a manifest [#16](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16)

* Cookbook - github wiki as work area?
  * Wikidata qualifiers in DCTAP? [#18](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/18)
  * Consider ordering of values [#14](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/14)
* Winnowing of [DCAP issues](https://github.com/dcmi/dcap/issues)

Minutes:

Tom: OK to not include multiple options text in the current draft. Could lead to less than useful discussion. However, use this to start cookbook. And we should ask people to let us know how they are using TAP so we can add things to the cookbook.

Phil: Also, create a template for gathering info about use: 
 - which elements from TAP did this use?
 - any elements they needed to add because not in TAP
 - what is the community or domain context?
 - what are the base standards they work with?
 - what did they want to do but could not?
 
Ben: Vocab document seems to solidly define the TAP as RDF, because of propertyID which is an IRI, but the primer hedges that TAP is not necessarily RDF. (kc, later: is this a difference between TAP and what a profile defines?) 

kc: propID in vocab is defined as "compatible with an RDF vocabulary" - does this need to change?

Tom: stay with this for now; people may want to just write in a term without a namespace. 

kc: change line to "identified vocabulary term"?

ben: it will be interesting if we hear from folks who are not using RDF: what will they put for propertyID?

CONCLUSION: leave it as is for now

