# DC TAP meeting August 4, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/gkV96AdHQDWsnJ-zRFLRSw

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20210804T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants
* Karen Coyle
* Nishad Thalhath
* John Huck
* Phil Barker

## Agenda

* Edits to [vocabulary description](https://hackmd.io/AKml5O_bR6yo8EVXg336Cw)
* Manifest [issue 16](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16) 
* Working with XML data - DataCite

## Minutes

**Vocab table:**

Phil: suggests adding a comment under the table. Cardinality refers to number of columns that can have that heading.

kc: also added cardinality to list of terms as per last meeting

**Issues:**

kc: will close issues marked as due for closing. However, #24, scope of value data type, may need more thought due to issues coming up when trying to create a TAP for XML data.

kc: do more examples with shapeID filled in on each row

**Manifest:**

What should be in a manifest. We have Tom's list, which is mainly program requirements. We also talked about adding admin data. Then there is how we link the manifest and the tap, and how we link multiple tables.

phil: add what is base model for the data? e.g. rdf, xml.

[Issue #16](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issue-835126598) has been updated with these comments and with list from Tom's config file.

kc: do we want to separate the admin type data and the program control data? john: machines won't care but humans will - needs to be easy for people to read. Labels?

john: multiple sheets and connecting

kc: these are the hard ones. probably can't get this info into a tabular format. Tom's config file does a good job.

phil: some of the data could go into a table, but getting it all into one table would be very difficult,and multiple tables are not a good idea.

Phil: we should define what information needs to be provided but not how it is provided

kc: good first step. At first I thought it weird that the python program would generate the config file, but now I see that it means that anyone running the program can generate a config file - it doesn't have to be provided separately. (Must tell Tom)

kc: aliases, a problem?

nishad: TAP is three distinct things: a model, specification (the HOW), software and tools. HOW needs more specifity than the model. With your own headers, it's the tap model but is not a TAP. Need to map back to TAP.

kc: users could have a user input form. that form could use other terminology. manifest aliases could be for input, output display, etc. there are multiple products that could be done from the table.

john: need to label different sets of column headings - different sets for different contexts.

kc: header can be property with different displays

phil: still thinking of declaring the elements as rdf properties?

kc: Tom is nervous about the amount of work, involving usage board, maintenance. Needed for json ld.

nishad: need to write the profile in rdf, also. may also need to express it in sparql or use shacl. or mix and match with other vocabularies. I favor a vocabulary with a namespace. vocab is now stable.

phil: LRMI uses a different namespace from dc terms. dcx. set up by Stuart for vocabulary that is not part of the core. if don't change vocab, maintenance is not a big deal

kc: DO: make this an issue. We seem to be at a stable point. There is a basic example dctap.ttl

kc: overriding boolean default - should this be in the manifest? or should programs be flexible?

phil: manifest. just a list of aliases for true and false

kc: add additional values - doesn't have to override but could be added the same way the columns can be added

phil: programming languages already vary for boolean values

kc: spreadsheets also automatically turn true and false into upper case. hard to predict what people will have to work with

nishad: manifest has two functions: complement the tap; override things from the model. 

kc: linking manifest to table; linking tables together

phil: linking from manifest to tap is easy - just need a file name or uri. The other direction is hard. all we can do is give a naming convention.

kc: also in same folder, same archive. Can we offer these as different ways?

phil: can say manifest have same filename as tap but with "_manifest".

nishad: in model we can say that table has a manifest; but we need in the specification to say how that is done

phil: manifest can be primary, and that can link to tap

kc: will be hard to convince people that manifest is the starting point

phil: yep. also because we aren't specifying the manifest in actual detail

john: thinking about oai-ore about resource linking. has actual properties. resourceMap is essentially a manifest

kc: also PROF vocab (not enthusiastic, but it has some of this function)

DO: John do oai-ore example, kc do a PROF example, that we can looking at. May want to have one that is a default, but we could show various ways to do it. 

Nishad: add schema. distinguish between data profile and application profile. Frictionless is a data profile. people can also use manifest for data profiles. there is a lack of manifest in the data world.

kc: does manifest also link together tap "modules" that are part of the same profile? 

john: that complicates the naming convention. each sheet will have a different filename

phil: suggest this for consideration but see this as a future issue.

kc: use issue 17 to add examples. DO: add a few of the suggestions from today. send to list. punt for now on multiple tables

nishad: what about single manifest for multiple profiles. (DO: add issue - #46)

kc: this excludes connecting them with file name. 

nishad: two directions - from profile to manifest needs to be filename; from manifest to profile we have more options
