# DC TAP meeting Thursday, October 28, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/Rd5eUEq3QAutoLHjQ5mG0Q

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20211014T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))

**Present**

* Phil
* Nishad
* Tom
* Karen

Regrets: John

## Agenda 

### DAYLIGHT SAVINGS ENDS 
* Oct 31 UK and EU
* Nov 7 USA

To stick to this same time for most of us, we need to move to UTC 15:00. This unfortunately means 12:00 midnight for Nishad. The other solution would be 6:00am for me and 7:00am for John.

https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/meetingtime.html?month=11&day=10&year=2021&p1=224&p2=136&p3=37&p4=248&iv=0

DECIDED: Move to UTC 15:00. Tom will change Zoom. Nishad will catch up using recordings. We will re-evaluate as we go along.

Recently closed issues:

* [TAP for XML](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/48) 
* [RDF ranges](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/37)
* [Wikidata qualifiers in DCTAP?](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/43)

Wikidata in TAP:

Nishad: Most modeling languages not yet WD friendly. If we can make a nice option to include qualifiers we can have examples from WD comunity. WD has shex but is now working for a tabular option.

Tom: John Samuel gave a shoutout in a DCMI virtual session.

kc: with Navino we concluded that WD gives specific property IDs for qualifiers. So we don't need a separate column because they are already qualified in their RDF.

Nishad: there are different use cases for that. EG you have a publication that is retracted, then you could add a year to that. More similar to RDF*. It would be neater to have qualifiers than too many shapes. Do examples in the cookbook with a qualifier column. This is simpler.

Nishad: Qualifier is not a constraint. (This seems to be what they did in their WD RDF.)

kc: can we get in touch with some WD folks to work with them?

DECISION: Leave issue 43 () open for now

ACTION: Nishad to create a sample table and add that to the github issue to show a different option.

What is needed to bring TAP to a stable version?
* [Modify mandatory/repeatable in Vocab document](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/52)
* [Manifest](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16)

kc: mandatory/repeatable needs to be applied to statement constraint, not property. And need to add statement constraint concept to the primer. Shape v Statement constraint.

ACTION: kc to modify vocab document and primer with this 

kc: Do we also need manifest?

tom: depends on what will be in stable release. Different people may want to implement manifest in different ways. Are we talking about the *content* of the manifest? Or the format?

tom: we can provide examples, and people working in different programming languages will want to implement in different ways. We don't want to sound like we are mandating a particular format.

kc: showing [manifest as a spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1uCPcY6RJI3MhVt0xR5TDykL6ayRj-FRzuIm0QQQSYRU/edit#gid=0) - a TAP for a manifest. Didn't get any feedback. 

tom: do we have code that will read this? 

kc: no property IDs so will may not get through python program. And we don't have actual properties for all of these.

tom: change property label to propertyID, replacing spaces with underscores, it may get through the program.

ACTION: kc to try this - copying labels to propID and remove spaces. Also will try to find actual properties.

tom: merit in not showing too many options

kc: the complication is that we have things like "uri prefix" and "escape character" which we have to define. And if we define them we essentially create a vocabulary for the manifest.

tom: it's a separate but related specification. dctap should work right out of the box, without any of these modifications. we could make this a separate spec, and not say that dctap depends on a manifest.

kc: the biggest dependence is with the uri prefixes

phil: the manifest is doing different things
1. acting as a configuration file for a piece of software
2. providing info about the AP - the admin data
3. providing other info that is required by the profile, like the namespace prefixes

Those  3 different things might need to be handled in different way. eg the configuration file for a piece of software will have to be done differently than from how the namespaces are handled. You *could* put them in the same file, but not necessarily.

Tom: you could say the same about the admin metadata - you wouldn't necessarily put that in a configuration file

phil: there are some things I want to set once that I will use for every ap then there are others that will vary from one ap to the next. The namespaces may be a list of defaults

kc: could we have 2 things: TAP, and applications using the TAP. Those aren't part of the TAP model, this happens *after* TAP

tom: sounds good. even prefix definitions are not essential -you could put in full URIs. like keeping TAP and implementations separate

kc: even for namespaces, can use prefixcc, or it can be in human-readable documents.

phil: have an informative section in the specification that talks about what info you might need in an implement.

tom: I see this as a separate document; keep model document as short as possible. This needs an introduction and explanation of what it is and why different info is needed. 2 small documents

nishad: I agree that model should be kept simple. yet the classic definition is of Application Profile which is elements drawn from different namespaces for an application. If you look at AP from that point of view then namespace has a huge significance. (Maybe T/AP isn't exactly what we are doing.)

kc: implementation would be a good thing to put in the article that Nishad mentioned

nishad: I like phil's 3 items. We can split these or give an option to put them in a single file or location. Put implemention in a separate document

kc: how to connect this to documentation for python program. Can these general concepts be added?

tom: could be an intro that outlines the issues that Phil named. don't know if the program could support a manifest in csv format

kc: the csv format was a "try" but not necessary

phil: yaml makes more sense for configuration. csv makes sense for admin data and namespaces because you want to create them as you create the profile. then you can create those in the same spreadsheet as the profile.

nishad: for tap model we can say that an implementation may need these types of data, and we can define a model for the manifest, and each program can implement these as needed. That gives more flexibility in the model, but implementations can be more constrained.

kc: primer appendix shows using a table for namespaces. Should keep that? 

tom: this could go into the implementation document

kc: first example in primer shows full namespace, then a table of namespaces. could change from a table to something else

phil: i'd leave this as a table, but say in this doc and the vocab doc that certain things are *configurable*. it would be useful to mention here that you can change the column headings as well. 

kc: have a section on implementation (but we don't have doc yet)

phil: where you introduce column headings say "the default headings are" - but this could be configured. 

kc: in profile overview section

tom: note that the column headers in the tables in this doc should be namespace, not IRI

nishad: we mandate propertyID so namespaces are important

tom: but I can imagine someone doing rapid prototyping and creating a tap before they have properties defined. and tap is meant for human consumption. so i think it is relative to the context

phil: is the colon part of the prefix? (no one answers)

ACTION: kc to add colons in table in primer

ACTION: kc to start "implementing tap" document in github. Add a subdirectory for implementations

Phil: working on a TAP to SHACL converter. github: https://github.com/philbarker/TAP2SHACL.
Follows model with having separate sheets for tap, namespaces, shapes, and configuration. Includes admin with 'language'. For shapes has target and targetType (from SHACL). Uses dropdowns in columns. Module APClasses is more specific than Tom's more general python. Uses dctap-python to read the csv, then tap2ap for local ap. Followed by ap2shacl which exports a shacl validation document. Includes examples. Does SHACL match what we assume is valid while reading TAP?

EU has a SHACL validator (also others). 

Lots of gotchas in SHACL - looks for pattern, if it doesn't find it calls that a success. Need more instance data to test against.

Tom: we need a directory of small snippets of instance data for testing against.

kc: we have a test directory, but it tests the tap, not the instance data. We are at the point that we need to work with instance data, but most real instance data is too complex.

phil: we need examples of taps with matching instance data and non-matching instance data. this also requires us to discuss some things we've kicked down the road, especially about open/closed shapes. 

tom: first try to make sure the default behavior is clear. because after configuration it's all open.

tom: looking at linkml. has different names for some things we are talking about. they start with yaml and have a conversion into shex. possible use my yaml and their yaml2shex.

nishad: linkml very much like yaml parser. dc tap has some different directions from linkml. oriented toward shex. why linkml instead of other schema languages? tap covers both structure and semantics but leaves much open and is quite simple. we need to explain that when we talk about tap. linkml is basically yaml. 

nishad: will we define URIs (a namespace) for TAP?

kc: will put on next agenda

For discussion:

* Issue: [min/max](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/50) expanded to:
    * [min/max](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/50) now min/max cardinality
    * [min/max string length](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/56)
    * [min/max string value](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/57)

* Issue: [Same property, multiple rows](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/51) 
  * ["Tap with repeated properties" examples](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1whGvaDwLY4FhI2AkktFkGdXvNjwZSqV0mkcff75fR4k/edit)
  * ["Shapes and cardinality" examples](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1RxjnBM6WnnfWrVMJmAHI83CR_gvWC7Qw9g6mS-I9iio/edit)

* [Cookbook](https://hackmd.io/V3LGdBdxTrOid57M2wJUlw) In progress
