# DC TAP meeting August 18, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/IGwlRGvZQtGAoDvv7wiLiw

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20210818T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants
* John Huck
* Nishad Thalhath
* Karen Coyle

## Agenda

### Finalize [vocabulary description](https://hackmd.io/AKml5O_bR6yo8EVXg336Cw)

Karen will update the github version with this version

## Manifest [issue 16](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16) - PROF

Agreed that PROF isn't our manifest, but Karen will modify analysis with PROF connecting our manifest to a TAP, if possible. PROF could allow us to connect one manifest to multiple TAPs.

Nishad: PROF has artifacts or expressions of the profile. But cannot distinguish complements of the profile. Propose that manifest is part of DC Tap - completes DC Tap.

kc: what does that mean for us in terms of giving the manifest an identity?

Nishad: We have a model, the implementation (csv and manifest). This gives us more freedom to define our manifest. If we have our own manifest than if we borrow from elsewhere.

kc: PROF brings together files that relate to the same "profile" - parts of a profile. We could hook together TAP, config file, outputs. But we want to be able to say that the manifest is of type manifest. 

nishad: we need some basic idea of how the TAP and the manifest interoperate.

kc: is manifest mandatory? if you have full URIs in the table you don't need to expand prefixes. That could be a TAP without a manifest.

nishad: yes, but as soon as you want to expand the TAP then you need the manifest. TAP model can be very simple, but applications will need more capabilities. But I prefer making the manifest part of our specification, with customization that is used by tools. We have one tool, but other tools may need other options.

ACTION: Karen will add manifest file to PROF example

John: Manifest format should be native to our specification. 

John will mock up something using OAI-ORE - even though this is more of an analogy, but not something we can directly use. Maybe we can pull ideas from them for us to look at as a model.

John: Does manifest have to be expressed as RDF? 

kc: No. We may define it as something simple like YAML or JSON or key/value pairs.

nishad: or compatible with both yaml and json, because they are interoperable. even key/value pairs can be compatible with both. (maybe need to be nested)

## [Working with XML data - DataCite](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/48)

DataCite [XSD](https://schema.datacite.org/meta/kernel-4.4/metadata.xsd)

Karen has been working with DataCite data -
* no uris for vocab terms
* using path to define properties

Have a root with many "shapes" with properties, and some properties that directly relate to root.

What I've done is their schema in a tabular format, not really a profile. But I did create a profile that uses a small amount of this.

altPropertyID is a translate between DC terms and the XSD. This was also an early requirement, that the TAP could include equivalent properties for mapping.

Another non-RDF example will be the RDA-learning resources group.

dc definition states that a profile reuses a vocabulary. Does that include a vocabulary in an xml schema?

john: has "old school" book with examples of traditional application profiles. Not machine-actionable stuff. Have to deal with the tree structure of xml. shapes here are looking like hierarchy in xml. Noting that some of the hierarchy and cardinality seems complex. Agree that the xpath is the only way to be specific about an element. Might be able to use relative xpath. 

nishad: much of RDF concepts came from xml, and rdf can be expressed in xml. problem is how we deal with all of the practices - do we stick with our model and make them conform to us? we can try to simplify some of this existing data, maybe not completely translate everything in TAP

kc: this gets pretty close to including all of DataCite
There may be different patterns, xsd seems to have its own. people may want to use 'yyyy' as a pattern. we may need a way to say what kind of pattern it is.

kc: haven't yet shown this to the datacite group yet. need to make an issue (if I can figure out how to say it) where a property has a cardinality and a valueType, and then the shape itself has a cardinality ... what does this mean? Should cardinality only be in one place? Once you get to the shape, there should be at least one element that is required or you have an empty shape, which doesn't make sense. Or it could be tht the shape is required and the properties are optional. But if the shape is optional? Anyway, have to think this through.

john: xml is a complex way to define constraints. How much of it can we do in TAP? or could TAP not define cardinalities on all of the levels?

kc: this could be a cookbook topic; warning people what the results are

John: is cardinality global, or within the context of the shape?

kc: seems it has to be in context of shape, because properties can be reused within a TAP. Phil wanted shapes themselves to have cardinality, but at the moment that is only on the row where they are the valueShape of some property.

john: this may be a conceptual difference - if a property appears in more than one context, is it the same property? in RDF it is, but it may not be so in xml. 

kc: especially when this is 'dumbed down' to dublin core. e.g. dct:identifier appears in many places.

kc: ran the smaller profile through python. get lots of warnings because propertyID not a URI. 

kc will send datacite files to John for his review.

kc: many issues have been closed. new ones. #45 is what to do with an external list in which members of the list do not have URIs. XML external lists are an example.

## Pattern

nishad: suggest that we define `pattern` as [HTML pattern](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTML/Attributes/pattern). This is used in web browsers. Can be used to validate input forms.
