# DC TAP meeting May 26, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/QFECXd_xRfmhULQUEhqO-Q

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20210526T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))



## Participants
* Tom Baker
* Karen Coyle
* Nishad Thalhath
* John Huck

## Announcements
* A proposal for a slot at the LD4 conference to talk about TAP was accepted, virtual,  July 19-23, 2021 (Linked Data 4 ... libraries)

## Agenda

* [Manifest](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16)
    * Nishad's tabular [example](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-835835598)
    * Karen's tabular [example](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-835838994)
    * Phil's JSON [example](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-836837419)
    * Nishad's YAML [example](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-846372392)

## Manifest ideas/questions
* create a transform to JSON that includes a basic set of prefixes/namespaces
* create a trasform to JSON that reads in a csv with prefix/namespace
* create a template (in JSON form? YAML?) for simple manifest metadata: creator, title, date, link to csv
* If we transform to JSON, do we need a namespace for TAP?
* JSON-LD?

## Action items

* **DONE** [Pull request](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/pull/27) to fix XSD link 
* [Ordered values](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/14)
    * **DONE** Suggest to Justin: either create his own `ordered` column (if needed for processing) and/or use the note field (for cataloger instructions)
    * We can put this in the cookbook until we either decide to add it to TAP or we create an extension method

## Links

* [Cookbook draft](https://hackmd.io/V3LGdBdxTrOid57M2wJUlw) 
* [Test records](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/tree/main/tests)

## Minutes

Discussion of a transform to JSON - something simple that just combines the TAP and a table with prefixes/namespaces.

Tom's csv2shex does some checking of the CSV. Outputs a normalized view to screen. This module returns a python object that can be transformed; a representation of the CSV with some modifications (expansion of namespaces, etc.).

We've played around with CSVW, and it has some of the things we need but not all. It doesn't address rows, just columns. It also assumes that there is only one level of structure, and we have shapes and properties within the shapes.

Before we address the complicaton of the manifest, the basic thing we need to do is connect the namespaces/prefixes to the TAP, by transforming that into JSON/YAML/etc that combines the two. Could include some built-in namespaces in the transform (dct, xsd, sdo, etc.).

Tom: partial to YAML and TAML - both very simple. Take comments (which JSON does not do). Simplest use case needs to be low barrier.

kc: idea is not something people create by hand.

Tom: what about configuration file? to create shex schema from the csv - need a configuration file, like a "dot file" - reads in a few prefixes.

kc: we have defined a tabular file for prefixes, which could be a separate table. The bottom line is to do this in a conversion since you can't combine them in a single CSV. The two files, TAP and prefixes, need to travel together. That could be in various forms, but getting them into a single simple file guarantees they can't be separated.

John: looking for a combined document format. Makes sense. Questions: 1) does it need to be round-trippable? 2) what is the main use case for having that combined file? is it the exchange format, or input to create shex/shacl?

kc: can be as easy as csv2json modules, which would be round-trippable. 

Tom: my script is a different scenario. First create a csv file and point script at that file and at a configuration file, but there is no intermediate format, and this is folded together in an in memory python object but not serialized. JSON could be an output of the python module.

John: The only reason we have two files is because of the limitations of CSV. The files should be combined. Is the conversion to JSON trivial, or would more be needed?

kc: basically a proof of concept to show the two files can be combined - the manifest will take more

Tom: sounds doable. But we need to define a canonical JSON/-LD representation. 

kc: need to figure out what checking we need to do, mainly structural. Maybe use some of the test cases to see what happens.

kc: we need a list of what has to be checked.

ACTION: kc will start a github issue to create that list. a bare minimum quality control.

ACTION: kc will continue making up test cases.

john: we also need to define the JSON format

tom: my program builds a shape object with statements - not just rows

john: main use case is uptake. If people see JSON they'll feel more familiar with it. More psychological than technical.

ACTION: kc will contact some folks to confirm that this would be useful

kc: brings up question: if we create JSON-LD we need a namespace for our column vocabulary

john: JSON-LD is needed if want TAP to be in RDF

nishad: we are trying to model a manifest. And we have modeled TAP to be compatible with RDF. If we provide RDF properties for our TAP then it is already a standard which is easily expressible in any RDF format, even turtle or RDF/XML. We don't need to push too far into JSON-LD but if it *can* be expressed in JSON-LD then you can use the @context which is helpful. But we don't need to provide the JSON-LD, just be compatible with JSON-LD. We need a namespace so people can use the vocabulary for other purposes, which is the whole idea of the semantic web.

tom: that requires a proposal with rationale; needs to go through the usage board. Don't think this is important for the TAP model

kc: if anyone wants to express TAP vocabulary in JSON-LD or some other semantic web format, we will need a namespace

john: would it be helpful to define both verbose and compact format for csv? e.g. output from Phil's table. One possibility is for the program to fill in all of the columns and expand URIs.

tom: don't gain much in csv2json if we just replicate the rows. assume we would have shape/statement structure. if no shapes, would the output be just property rows, or would there be a blank shape area. 

ACTION: tom to organize another "tools" meeting. Karen wants to listen in if possible.








