# DC TAP meeting January 6

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88331879263?pwd=ZFBlUFRtbEpyaEVRbVhVRXY3cEFlZz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/lkqfhxa3RgyJEPK71BQDww

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20210106T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))


### [Resolutions from previous discussions](https://hackmd.io/tjFOwoqqTIid4jtfmVzkLg)

## Participants
*    
    
## Agenda
* Announcement: another open meeting on February 18 UTC 5:00/6:00am CET/2:00pm Tokyo/4:00pm Sydney/9:00pm PST?
* Announcement: closing DCAP github issues
* Change to definition of profile (suggested by Phil):
    ~~* from: An application profile specifies the structures and metadata terms used in a dataset. At a minimum the profile must provide the data elements that make up the metadata definition; a profile may also include rules for validity, such as value constraints and element cardinality.~~
    * to: *Using terms from existing vocabularies,* an application profile specifies the structures and metadata terms used in a specific dataset. At a minimum the profile must provide the data elements that make up the metadata definition; a profile may also include rules for validity, such as value constraints and element cardinality.

ACTION: Karen will replace definition in vocabulary document with the above. *DONE*

    
* Finalize DC TAP Github issues:
    * [#4](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/4) Multiple values in a cell
        * See [draft](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/5#issuecomment-756486195)
    * [#5](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/5) Value constraints list
        * [Draft](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/5#issuecomment-756189578)
    * [#3](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/3) Location of namespaces

Discussion:
#4 Multiple values in a cell. 

kc: Propose whitespaces between them, quotes (single or double) if needed (coordinates with #5)

Tom: Good easy solution; don't want to go too far into implementation

Phil: are we likely to have values with spaces?

kc: yes, some (Civil War | Solar energy)

tom: don't need to achieve implementation interoperability

phil: do you want to be the only one who can understand your AP? I would want to be able to understand other APs

Ben: in terms of surrounding cell values in double quotes, that's often not what a user does but is done by a program that is transforming the CSV

phil: this can happen in the export from a spreadsheet to a csv

kc: but need to deal with multiple values; can't assume that each cell will be a single string; then there's ambiguity between multiple values and a value string with spaces

tom: which elements can take multiple values?

kc: we've seen valueNodeType and valueConstraint (pick list); valueType gets complicated for further constraints

tom: let's make a table in the github issue

phil: value type would work if no further constraints; propertyID could be a list with Mandatory=y, which means that one would be required but not all; don't be overly restrictive, allow as many as we can imagine

kc: and/or/not is still on our list to solve; best to decide a way to do multiples, but don't say that there are any columns where that is forbidden 

nishad: real world aps have examples where there are choices; go with standard OR

kc: so multiple values means "or"

tom: need to say which they apply to; however it could work for property label

phil: no need to forbid multiples in any column; we can give examples that show the more obvious ones that guides people in that direction

kc: we will revisit this if we tackle and/not

phil: say whitespace is default (e.g. newline); also figure out ways to provide other separators (e.g. in profile manifest).

nishad: we can give options but we do want to support interoperability. dctap is a format that specifies a tabular format which should be clean enough for anyone to implement as a parser. we don't want hundreds of formats

tom: air on side of simplicity and not get into implementations; a question of best practice;

nishad: space is good because it's simple to understand; space can be different characters - whitespace; we can't give wild card implementations, need a small number of separators; 

kc ACTION - examples

#5 Value constraint types See Tom's suggestions

kcI I suggest that everything in value constraint be considered a list even if it is a list of one - so our constraint is not about lists but about the kind of thing in the constraint

phil: have to use  quotes around values withmspace; there will be times when spaces are not appropriate

tom: if there i not a valueconstraintype picklist, so constraint is one ore more things, otherwise you do not treat it as a list

phil: I don't think that helps for the separator problem; treating everything as a list should work

nishad: we're just looking at "or" so far; so we just need to declare an or operator where space is ambiguous

kc: if you have a datatype, then do you need a value constraint type?

phil: stem, regex

kc: language tag? 

nishad: non-actionable constraint type - "note" means it isn't actionable, just a human constraint; note is for whole row, may need a human readable string, an explainer

kc: that was my thinking about the note column

ACTION nishad to provide an example 

ben: multiple values implies a picklist; when is a value constraint type useful? could it also be useful as min/max?

tom: this could be an extension (added columns) but don't want to add columns to model  Value constraint of range? simple using a hyphen

phil: we need to choose one of the conventions

nishad: talked about allowing shex or shacl constraint

phil: would we avoid constraint types? 

kc: yes, include this. this would be an option for more complex operations

phil: do we need iristem?

kc: not everyone will write regex; so we need to provide a few common constraints

nishad: supports iristem as easy way to constrain value types

ACTION kc - add proposal to github

#3 Leave undefined but give examples of possible solutions such as csv on the web


