# DC TAP meeting Thursday, November 11, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/FPEx1_qMS9GyMlv2PupWFw

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20211111T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

**Present**

*

## Agenda 

### Announcements

* [DCAT-US](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/tree/main/examples/dcat-ap-us) added to examples
* Progress on software?

### Vocabulary file updated
* [diff](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/commit/c3741184596460361346b4e55921a5905ce2e5ef#diff-c32dea882670a753b4b7b8bda6db370af4ce7d60972230d7bfaf2f417ce720f6)
* Close ISSUE [Modify mandatory/repeatable in Vocab document](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/52)

### Work on primer
* [Draft](https://hackmd.io/DErWH403RaWiBippMFosaw) in progress

phil: converting TAP to shacl

tom: I thought of shacl as a profile

phil: there may be a use case for converting SHACL into TAP. I've been working on an EU DCAT AP

phil: did a [blog post](https://blogs.pjjk.net/phil/shacl-when-two-wrongs-make-a-right/) regarding shacl, where things do not get checked nor do they fail? it doesn't give you the feedback. 

kc: how will TAP be expressed in SHACL? Where does open/closed fit in?

phil: yes, that changes things, but more study needed. SHACL doesn't test everything you might want, like do the terms in your graph actually exist in the namespace you are referencing? 

tom: would require content negotiation online

phil: should be trivial in specific cases

kc: hmmm, would open refine be usedful? because it works with tabular data.

ACTION: kc find someone to ask about open refine and TAP

john: there are extensions to open refine that may be useful. can query databases, etc. Maybe a TAP extension?

phil: what about exporting directly from google sheets?

kc: add to implementation document

**Changes to vocab file**

OK, and kc will close github issue

**Primer updates**

kc: reorganizing to keep statement constraints together, followed by shape information

**Implementation document**

Can we agree on an outline? 

tom: software environments where it has been implemented. point to examples? or is this mainly a guide?

kc: last time we decided to separate tap from implementation, e.g. manifest. The 3 needs that Phil stated. 

phil: scope of implementing - how to create AP, how to create table (e.g. templates in excel, sheets, etc.), how tap can be processed. Latter is very open field. But there are so many things that could be done, so it would be speculative to go much further

john: also implies the whole metadata implementation that is too broad

tom: john samuel gave call-out to TAP as a potential helper for wikidata data. limit document to things that are working well, point to their documentation

kc: could point to known implementations from readme, and should point to dctap-python. Implementation doc can say: you can add columns

tom: things that you can configure. not clear where to address open/closed. do shacl and shex have same defaults. in shex you can say "closed" so open is the default

phil: in shacl may work differently

tom: we don't need a default for tap - but we should discuss it

phil: adding in some things for shacl, like a column for level of violation. and a sheet with information about the node classes, because that's how shacl works. 

tom: could be a section about shacl, and a section about shex. not related to any particular program.

kc: people want to add classes and ranges. means you don't have to go back to original vocabulary. 

tom: not good practice to change ranges

kc: schema.org sometimes gives you more than one.

phil: APs need to be valid against base vocabulary. should be ok to narrow range. but AP range statement is for validation, not for redefinition

tom: we could suggest that things that we see as violating the AP concept be included only as annotations. and warn against use.

ACTION: make sure documents make a clear statement about APs not violating the base vocabularies that they use

ACTION: Tom and Karen - review 2008 AP document, and perhaps add dc tap to examples

phil: at what point do we move this to DCMI pages?

ACTION: primer isn't linked. kc: make issue in DC web github. Phil will send kc page for group, and kc will suggest updates

(Nishad is now web manager. There is a ticketing tech.)

tom: DC TAP should be more visible on site

kc: should at least be in list of specifications.
