# DC TAP meeting September 15, 2021

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/e4roxuSLQ6qsnnVahnEAJQ

**Time:** 14:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20210915T14&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants
* Nishad
* John
* Ceri
* Karen
* Tom

## Agenda

* Do an article? (Nishad)

* [DataCite examples](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/tree/main/examples/datacite) in github
* Manifest

# The Manifest Issue

This is a roundup of where I think we are with Manifest.

## The parts

The question as (at least) three parts:

1. The content of the TAP manifest
2. The format/model of the TAP manifest
3. Connecting the manifest with the relevant TAP

### The content

As per the opening comment of issue #16, these are the contents we expect in a manifest:

* Relating to the entire table
    * Administrative data (who created the profile, when, etc.)
    * Link manifest to TAP
    * Linking modular tables that have compatible/same columns (DEFER)
    * Define prefixes for URIs
    * Base model of the metadata being profiled
    * Extra shape elements
    * Additional value node types
    * Escape character
    * List item separator
* Relating to individual columns
   * Overriding of boolean defaults from 1/0, true/false
   * Alternate column titles (e.g. in different languages)
   * Elements to be parsed as multiple items in a cell
* Row-level data
   * Defining order of values on a statement


### The Format/Model

We have discussed various formats for the manifest. These include: 

**CSV on the Web:**
* [comment](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-830655174) by @bencomp
* [comment reply](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-831562464) by kcoyle
* [Example by Phil](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-836837419) in JSON-LD
* [Example by Nishad](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-846372392) in YAML based on Phil's JSON-LD
* [Another example by Phil](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-847189765)

**Table format**
* [Example by Nishad](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-835835598)
* [Example by Karen](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/16#issuecomment-835838994)

## Connecting Manifest and TAP

* [Issue #17](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/17)
* From discussions:
    * Use naming convention, e.g. name of TAP file plus "_manifest"
    * Place in same folder or directory level (this is what the config file of dctap-python uses.)
    * For portable, archive the TAP and the manifest file in the same .zip or .tar


## Minutes

possible article: Nishad; give some info on how/why decisions were made

Tom: maybe submit to J of Semantic Web, because the reviews also serve as feedback.

kc: start with an outline. Look in dctap/media for slides with info.

ACTION: Nishad to start it in Hackmd (reminder to make public write)

Datacite examples: 
ACTION: Karen to add recommendation to comment in github issues (DONE)
ACTION: John to add his comments to the readme or to an additional file

kc: new github issue for dealing with minimum and maximum. Base? or Extensions?

tom: do we have a place to record extensions? do we want an extensions document?

kc: could that be the cookbook?

tom: we could put them in the cookbook then decide later if they go into the base

**Manifest question**

kc: have created a file with the basic issues. We have the content part pretty well developed. (issue #16). 

tom: what is defining order of values?

kc: not sure, but could be preferred from a list

john: is this the author order from BIBFRAME?

kc: don't think so

kc: big question: do we define data elements, leaving data format open? do just data elements? 

tom: prefer defining in abstract way; possibly use YAML for the examples since it is readable. But people can adapt it to their implementation using whatever format they wish.

kc: do we define a vocabulary, or do we treat this as a profile?

tom: maybe a DC TAP?

kc: I will try; some may not exist 

nishad: by definition manifest is profile if you mix and match elements. Some from DC some from DCAT some from PROF. Can then round-trip RDF to DC TAP, etc. And people can extend for their own needs.

kc: a TAP will be in CSV - is that what we want?

nishad: yes, because DC TAP is a modeling language

kc: ok, we'll do that and then run it through dctap-python. What are the shapes? or is it flat?

nishad: shape is author or maintainers because needs info like contact info

john: table, columns, rows - those might be shapes

(Group begins working on a sheet for the manifest. )

nishad: there isn't a lot of freedom in tap - manifest is a way around those restrictions. There needs to be a lot of flexibility in the manifest so it can cover more use cases. But we need a bare minimum (core?) so there is some interoperability. 

kc: does this mean that we want to develop a core manifest, then show people how to go beyond that core?
e.g. main thing is prefixes for URIs.

nishad: other programs can understand the basics but maybe not the full flexibility. can we define a way that people identify their custom info so that third-party programs can know to ignore those if they aren't likely to understand them.

john: focus on properties that we need; keep it simple

kc: (summarizing john) don't worry about which elements have existing properties for now. but develop a general model, and some may turn out to be defined properties. 

ACTION: kc will try to develop something general, using property label, not IDs

nishad: the model is important; yaml does key-value pairs which is very simple. We can use dctap to model a basic manifest but not to constrain a manifest.

nishad: use shape label and property label. then value type. for the purposes of modeling, don't bother with propertyID because that gets into some complex semantics.

john: propertyID is required in TAP; which is the name of a property, not necessarily a URI.
