# DC TAP meeting Thursday, June 23, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/mKcvYrWQTfiWNk6K1VYWHw

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20220623T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants

* Tom, John, Nishad, Phil, Karen

## Announcements

* Cookbook draft has been copied to dctap github - https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/blob/main/DCTAP-Cookbook.md . It has a reference to the [hackmd draft](/V3LGdBdxTrOid57M2wJUlw) where changes will be happening before being copied over. Karen will edit and push.
* Phil takes on min/max areas in the cookbook
* Also, see [Good relations cookbook](http://wiki.goodrelations-vocabulary.org/Cookbook/) as an example.


## Agenda

* [DC Tabular Application Profiles (DC TAP) - Primer](/DErWH403RaWiBippMFosaw)
  * Karen has gone through most of Primer to change examples to Book Case. Some consultation is needed to complete this.
  * Also, most comments have been resolved
* CookBook: Review dctap issues to determine which belong in Cookbook. Also need to see if there are "hidden issues" in the discussions that also should be carried in Cookbook.

## Minutes

kc: Idea: maybe create a document that has examples rather than having to go through all of the folders on github

tom: Do this in readthedocs? Could this be reflected in dc web site?

nishad: as a one-off, yes, but may be hard to publish frequently

tom: for persistence things need to be on dc.org

kc: have been changing examples in primer to reflect simple book case example. Should examples "grow" or is it best to show only that which is being defined?

tom: concise is good; page width a problem

kc: maybe a full one at the end

Phil's comment on interpretation of TAP - what do we mean by statement constraint? Means everything on a row; not an implementation choice. 

tom: isn't this cardinality on the statement template? there are also shape constraints, and notes/labels. 

kc: primer talks about how to create a TAP but doesn't address usage. Do we need a section on using TAP? or statement templates? where can it go in the document?

phil: put it in opening paragraph

kc: new section talks about structure of TAP. Could add statement templates here.

ACTION: KC will attempt to write short paragraph including statement template v shape and usage:
* multiple values in a cell are alternatives
* each row is interpreted independently
* all rules on a row must be validated

tom: refer to style guide? list related documents?

phil: if we use statement template then labels, etc. are part of the template, no?

ACTION: kc will modify vocabulary document from statement constraint to statement template

kc: in vocab document we have profile level, shape level and statement level.

**Issues - esp. cookbook issues**

min/max - phil has examples using valueConstraintType. can also use columns "maxValueIncludes". could also be a regex.

tom: two ways to extend: separate columns or value types

phil: need to decide on how to encode range - 1,4; 1..4; etc.

kc: for non value constraints? probably need columns 

phil: hard to say "up to 3 from the picklist"

kc: also, can't say "if" - if elementary school age range is X.

john: also, to refer to other parts of the TAP

kc: and the only address we have is for shapes

ACTION: phil takes 2 min/max issues; not #50

kc: issue #53 TAP and validation. cookbook?

tom: recommendation should be use existing validation (shex, etc.)

kc: what does it mean when properties are repeated, etc?

phil: agree with Tom; use existing validation schema. then discuss different parts of TAP when doing conversion. e.g. multiple values in a cell are options; each row is interpreted independently; all rules on a row must be validated

kc: where to do this? we have no formal TAP spec. Extend vocabulary?

tom: formal semantics should be out of scope. our targets (shex shacl, xml schema, json schema) are not necessarily inter-compatible. better to have informal documentation

kc: there are things that we know about the TAP that we should tell to people: multiple values in a cell, etc.

phil: agree. these 3 can go into the primer:
* multiple values in a cell are alternatives
* each row is interpreted independently
* all rules on a row must be validated

"here's what we have agreed - you'll come across other things that you need to figure out for yourself"

kc: section in cookbook could say: I need to do X, and then we'd show how to do this. "I need to declare this as a class and I also need to constrain the value - this can be done on 2 rows"

ACTION on all: examples of what you would need to add to a TAP, and whether it would be best as a column or as a value type or value constraint type.

kc: ? Add example section with a few different examples so readers see more than one in Primer
