# DC TAP meeting Thursday, March 31, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/eGfiNUGkSWiIgN1TSczSCA

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20220331T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants

* Karen Coyle
* Tom Baker
* John Huck
* Phil Barker
* Nishad


## Announcements
* Lotico datashapes program with Jose Labra and Eric Eric Prud’hommeaux now [online](http://www.lotico.com/index.php/Data_Shapes)

## Agenda

What I think we need to accomplish:
1. Come up with a term and description for structures in metadata that address entities (IRL) and shapes (in APs).
2. Finish profile section and decide what to do with this
3. This will be followed by a review (first by Karen) of the vocabulary document and the primer.

* Framework: https://hackmd.io/7RT1MstvS7yumgVwbtFm2A
* Github issue: https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/35
* [The Singapore Framework](https://www.dublincore.org/specifications/dublin-core/singapore-framework/)
* Definition issue: https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/66

## Minutes

Short discussion of work with the rda ETHRD IG - and issues of making elements mandatory. Phil gives example of "title" which may be mandatory for documents, but often is not available for photographs.

john: mandatory if applicable is also common. Psychologically people think that "optional" means "not important". 

phil: only mandatory element may be "type"

kc: it may be important but you might not always have it

**Framework**

kc: need to get concept of structure into metadata area so we can address it in the profile area. There is RDF-graph structure and hierarchical structure, aka XML. 

John: "node" has a specific meaning in xml. It means each point in an XPATH - meaning an element, a value, an attribute. 

Phil: that sounds very similar to RDF node.

Phil: add the hierarchical framework in the paragraph on other formats

kc: want to say that we are using 'node' for these non-RDF ones

tom: say: The hierarchical structures in xml and json are analogs to the 'node' in RDF

phil: don't say analogous. just say what it is

kc: but we need to show that we are using the word node also for xml

john: include xml elements and attributes - that's just a design choice

kc: now in profile section, how do we connect the shape to the metadata node.

tom: subject node?

kc: set of statement constraints for a common node

john: shapes in TAP are not necessarily a class, but they do relate to a node. even a blank node?

phil: we've defined node in the instance, not the model. what do we mean by a common node? it could be for a type of node

kc: if we use type we don't need 'common'

john: type of node defined by shape. in instance data there's nothing about the node, you have to have prior knowledge

phil: all nodes that mean some criteria. which we don't have a way to express in tap - 

tom: sounds like the ShEx "discriminator" - basically how you identify the shape

kc: need more after 'criteria' - maybe examples.

john: 'members of a given class'

kc: leave in constraints (vs 'rules'). Need example of types of constraints

phil: can we say that constraints are defined in the TAP document? if this is a style guide, the definitions should be in the spec. Also, we don't have agreed definitions for some of these terms. We need to go over and look at the vocabulary definition

tom: if statement constraint is the whole thing, then individual elements of the statement constraint shouldn't be called constraints

kc: vocabulary document is terse

phil: put them throughout the primer, because those have examples. Put in a definition section for each element

kc: I will work these terms into the primer document, which doesn't (yet) describe things in the world, or metadata. 

phil: statement constraint is comprised of rules and information (e.g. labels). columns are the elements of the statement constraint

tom: as per #56 I suggest using template

phil: shapes are things you see in the data. It's unfortunate that shapes have been used in APs to mean the pattern in the AP - ie. shex and shacl. We could use pattern - in the sewing pattern meaning. Template has a similar meaning in engineering terms. However, the 'shape' ship has sailed.

kc: whole profile is a template, but not individual shapes

john: what do shex and shacl call the shape in the instance data? difference between existing and expected.

kc: shex seems to use 'shape' for what is in the data

phil: shape expression is what shex defines

nishad: there's a difference between what is in the data, what can be in the data, and what may be in the data. 

phil: shex is like shape sorting toy - there are shape holes and shape pieces that have to go together

kc: we don't have a shape, we have a shapeID. Where does the shape itself exist?

phil: shacl is shapes constraint language, which implies putting constraints (shacl) on shapes (metadata instance). shapeID could be an identifier for constraints on a shape or the expression of a shape, identifier for pattern for which shapes could conform. 'specific arrangement of nodes and edges in the data = shape'

kc: so we could get shape into the metadata area; and shapeID identifies a shape

tom: need a word for higher level groupings / shapes.

john: better not to get too far out of line with shex and shacl since those are well known. perhaps we need to review what a shape is and what we mean.

kc: will start an issue for discussion about shape

phil: we can talk about expressing shapes etc. in profile area. We have shapeID in the vocabulary, but we need to define shape.

## DC 2022

* shall we do something about TAP? (kc and john to coordinate) Can use examples like DCAT, DataCite and RDA
