# DC TAP meeting Thursday, January 6, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/5rLR1ypiT7OCxhJYSEw8NA

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20211125T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

**Present**

* 

## Agenda 

### Announcements

Tom: ShEx call - calling "discriminators" e.g. type arc. Discriminators can be more than one property. Type arc may be missing or wrong. Don't try to validate things that are not what they say they are. Used to decide what shape is to be validated.
phil: sometimes the object of a property is the discriminator
kc: same property can have different values, e.g. IRI or literal. If those are on two different lines then they are different things. If you define the target as something with this property and this value type, how do you know if there is a property with a different value type? If you start with the rules, then you don't see what didn't match.
phil: shacl will not indicate what doesn't match; shex does. SHACL alone will not do all validation
kc: TAP is "asperational" but doesn't actually do validation.

Phil: overview of samples of instance data for [simple book](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/tree/main/examples/simple-book)
Interesting case: if TAP says only one title, and you provide titles in different languages, that is invalid. open_book_extra.ttl has extra property. 
phil: real instance data is much more complex, and more is needed to be able to test everything.


### Work on Primer

* on [Hackmd](https://hackmd.io/DErWH403RaWiBippMFosaw) for easier commenting
* [updates from last meeting](https://github.com/kcoyle/dcap/commit/1139539362d917ecd29ba728013172142c955672#diff-28cc19f2013c7b9e915c4c8a3ac5b2c668e8a02e5c6852dd027cfbed2e1be01b)
* Decide: "pattern" or "regex"? https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/60 See also "use HTML pattern" https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/49

Only small changes. 
* valueShape means no valueDataType, but can have valueNodeType

* renaming pattern to regular expression?
  * Nishad: I like pattern because regex is implementation specific. XML calls it "pattern" but says to use regex. HTML5 pattern comes from javascript specification
  * phil: need to use the regex that downstream programs will use
  * nishad: we should recommend to use HTML pattern, but people can override that
  * kc: do we need a way to specific the flavor of regex in the TAP?
  * nishad: general recommendation should be XML because we are using XML data types
  * phil: default is assumed to be XML regex; else use configuration file
  * kc: config file or TAP itself?
  * phil: if you are using more specific expressions, you are doing something quite sophisticated. Most regex are compatible with a few exceptions.
  * nishad: you can do a picklist in regex
  * kc: regex could do everything
  * nishad: how do we say how to write a picklist?
  * kc: we punted on that. I moved the section on multiple values from the primer to the cookbook. 
  * nishad: can we adopt a standard regex for this?
  * phil: regex \= easy
  * nishad: could be a pipe (that would be regex)
  * phil: we say: multiple values in any cell is an "OR". So, do we really need to say that it is a picklist? You only need the picklist type when the value would be ambiguous.
  * kc: your (Phil) multiple table example uses line feeds between values
  * phil: I found that different separators make sense in different columns. Config file may need to indicate on a per-column basis.
  * kc: I thought about doing "one of[x, y, z]" to show that it is a choice
  * tom: encourage people to extend DC TAP, so they could have a more specific solution
  * kc: we can show various methods in the cookbook
  * tom: it may not be a good idea to assume the TAP must be interoperable; that is very constraining. I prefer that we provide something simple but not set high expectations for interoperability
  * kc: put statement to this effect at top of cookbook - that this is a very simple model; you should feel free to make modifications for your needs. Just know that modified TAP may not be usable by others without some explanation.
  * phil: I do want to be able to exchange TAPs, so we do need defaults that will be easy to implement
  * kc: what can we say here about the picklist? the example shows commas. "one or more values from which to choose with some known separator that is defined in a configuration file if needed."
  * tom: need a sensible default
  * phil: i still wonder what picklist means - if more than one value, picklist is the default. Can be more than one IRIstem, or languageTag. Both of these can get multiples.
  * kc: will make a github issue
