# DC TAP meeting Thursday, May 26, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/rJpGCUSOQ4KpJGxT-Ofisg

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20220526T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants
* Karen, Tom, John, Nishad, Phil 

## Announcements

* Tom: working on TAP to ShEx; documentation first. TAP  uses a subset of ShEx. Lists ShEx capabilities TAP does not have, e.g. and/or/not, nested shapes, focus node as object. Also can say what must NOT be in data. Show extensions for "closed" and "extra". Using jinja templates for conversion to ShEx.
* kc: how do we as a group need to address this as a group product?
* pb: treat it as an implementation of TAP and therefore separate. May need to talk about how to define shapes. 
* kc: we need to make clear that these are separate and are not defining TAP
* kc: Is it complicated that these programs are under DCMI github?
* jh: documentation creates an online presence
* kc: sentence in docs: "this is an implementation and does not change the TAP specification"
* tb: tap should be implementable in many ways. we should keep it simple and let implementations make decisions
* pb: we had decided on those being alternatives, right?

## Agenda

### Primer
* [DC Tabular Application Profiles (DC TAP) - Primer](/DErWH403RaWiBippMFosaw) questions
  * Edited to line 177
  * "case insensitive" - maybe make this just a suggestion (see line 147 - "should" vs "could")

### Putting a border around basic TAP
* Multiple values in cells and close [#19](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/19)?
* Issue #69 [Should we define a shapes table or row?](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/69)

## Minutes

kc: comment if you see something in Primer. Otherwise, I'll continue as is. Probably need one last pass to check on terminology.

**Multiple values in cells**

kc: first version is parked in [cookbook](https://hackmd.io/V3LGdBdxTrOid57M2wJUlw).

tb: I assume we are not aiming for strong interoperability; different communities will have their own preferences for things like this. Python program lets you say if a value is a list, and give list separator. We should say this is a possibility; and represents a choice.

pb: I agree with where tom ended. We do need to aim at some interoperability. People will use the TAP only if there are tools to process it. I would not want different tools to interpret multiple values in a cell in different ways. I would want to  know that I could use one tool to convert to SHACL and another to convert to Shex, and that wouldn't work if one treated multiple values as OR and the other treated multiple values as AND. We need some level of operability for the base TAP. What is used as separator has to be flexible. That needs to be configurable. I want multiple values as a cell are treated as alternatives, and separators are to be assigned.

kc: could we say that multiple values are alternatives unless over-ridden?

pb: if we do that then all tools need to know how to override.

kc: Do we have any situations where we would want multiples to be AND?

pb: for that you can have two separate rows.

kc: have we decided whether two rows with same property are AND or OR?

pb: We have decided that each row is processed, which becomes a de facto AND.

kc: is this true for both OPEN and CLOSED?

pb: that depends on how we define OPEN and CLOSED, and that's another long discussion.

pb: example: if you want to give 2 rdf:types and put them on 2 rows it means you must have both types in the data.

tb: can't have multiple values for booleans. Did we go through all columns?

kc: I recall that we assumed that multiple values in a cell are choices. I also remember that Tom hoped that there would be a way to indicate which columns have multiple values and which do not.

tb: we should not require an implementation to output list elements for all TAP values. 

kc: a program could treat all cells as single strings; a further program would decide if there are multiple values. TAP doesn't say where that decision has to be made

tb: I'm trying to avoid raising the bar for conforming implementations

pb: If there is a list in a cell then the output program should treat those as alternatives, in whatever form that program takes. Whether the program treats that as a list, or whether it retains the string with the separator, doesn't matter. DCTAP Py outputs some elements as strings and some as lists, but that doesn't matter - they can be processed as needed. It is a bit of a pain to figure out which are strings and which are lists, but that's something that happens inside of a program and that isn't TAP.

kc: TAP needs to stand alone, program needs should not be built into the TAP. We should say: if there's more than one, those are choices. But we shouldn't say how more than one is done.

tb: in practice, if you intend an element to have multiple values. 

kc: the question is: does the TAP have to tell the implementing program whether there are multiple values? 

pb: Yes, Tom's is a reasonable approach. I think we should identify what cannot be a list.

tb: multiple property IDs?

kc: for ingest, you may accept either foaf:name or schema:name.

pb: and they have the same constraints. We have a use case where we say there must be a postal address or an email address. 

**Should we have shapes on a separate row?**

kc: Should we have shapes on a separate row? or in separate tables? 

tb: have added separate line for shape to tap-py

referencing #69, and [Phil's table](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1A1l2ouF07yXWpHzeA6d6j9FRmXIxrcPsRCEbTvgTNKQ/edit#gid=1906556227) The table shows columns (elements) for a shape. Some are specific to SHACL, which define the shape as a target. This are required to go from TAP to SHACL. CLOSED is on a shape?

tb: these would be extensions. But they are probably specific to the particular processing need.

kc: what does a separate shape line have as elements?

tb: mandatory is a statement template constraint, so if that were needed for a shape it would need a different element. This is an extension; it has shapeID and shapeLabel, closed, extra (these are shex elements).

(Discussion about whether shex:extra is a statement constraint or a shape constraint. Decided no need to pursue at this time.) kc: is this an extension that we would like to explain in cookbook?

pb & tb: yes, this would be good in the cookbook.

kc: will copy this #69 ninto cookbook; later we'll  need Phil to write more
