# DC TAP meeting Thursday, October 27, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/VQQIRK43SeG-PPUCdPy6MA

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=202200929T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants

* Tom, Nishad, Phil, Karen

## Agenda

**Vocabulary document**

* Review vocabulary document
* [Copy for comments](https://hackmd.io/Q6nvIs_FSLmLmeOhso66_Q)
* ("statement constraint" to "statement template" already done)

**Manifest**
* have we decided not to define a manifest?
* https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Amanifest

### Minutes

(some lost at beginning because not recorded)

**Vocabulary document**

* [copy on hackmd ](https://hackmd.io/Q6nvIs_FSLmLmeOhso66_Q)

Change "property" to "element" - not declaring them as RDF properties at this time

Delete datatype column because confusing at "meta" level

Some things aren't elements - e.g. shape and statement template. Remove those, but explain elsewhere

Nishad: "component" tap has 3 - shape, statement and statement elements

Needs a diagram!

Issues with cardinality related to TAP+shape+statementTemplate vs TAP+statementTemplate

Diagram - UML or ? UML can show elements and cardinality

Drop datatype column; cover that in text, and don't be strict about datatypes

For propertyType - not necessarily an IRI. Say literal or IRI but recommend IRI

Nishad: propertyID sounds like an IRI

Phil: how it's worded: "unique within the context of this profile" is good. PropertyID needs to be globally unique term

Nishad: "property" is external, but propertyID is local as soon as you add it to the profile

Phil: that's 2 different things; if using dcterms need that IRI in profile otherwise you don't know what you are using

Nishad: confusing that both are ID and one is local and one is not

tom: one use of dctap is for rapid prototyping, and it should be acceptable to use a placeholder for the propertyID

nishad: is shapeID a class?

kc: not always; and classes are not always structures in RDF

phil: put something here about propertyLabel and RDF label?

kc: make a section in the cookbook. already listed as issue #72

phil: label used here is local; not necessarily same as label in RDF vocabulary.

tom: this should go in the primer (kc: added to nov 24 meeting)

Add to primer: "can differ from label in underlying vocabulary"

phil: valueNodeType: could this be used for XML structures? they have "leaf nodes" but not clear if other elements are thought of as nodes. "node type of value node" then say that when using RDF the available types are: etc.

phil: change "built-in" to minimum set; "minimum set of values for RDF" in all areas

tom: what is it built-in to? data model? 

nishad: documents will go under dublincore/specifications/dctap
