
# DC TAP meeting Thursday, February 17, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/fbiJ77CCR2-fxF6vEGXvYQ

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=202200217T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants
* Tom Baker
* Phil Barker
* John Huck
* Karen Coyle


## Agenda

### Announcements
* Karen posted Phil's blog post about DCAT-AP to the DCAT list

### Discuss Phil's terminology document

We will pick up where we left off, talking about the Metadata section. Among other things we discussed whether TAP is/is not a schema. The Singapore Framework may help us think about that. See links below.

(Note: if you wish to refresh yourself on our previous discussion, that is at https://hackmd.io/QaPg2nDKQeGNXYoJWM9vpQ)

* Framework: https://hackmd.io/7RT1MstvS7yumgVwbtFm2A
* Github issue: https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/35
* [The Singapore Framework](https://www.dublincore.org/specifications/dublin-core/singapore-framework/)

A quote from SiFr:
"The term profile is widely used to refer to a document that describes how standards or specifications are deployed to support the requirements of a particular application, function, community, or context. In the metadata community, the term application profile has been applied to describe the tailoring of standards for specific applications."

## Minutes
kc: announced Phil's blog post on DCAT-AP on DCAT site; but they aren't the DCAT-AP group



kc: where we ended up last time: phil said TAP is a metadata schema; kc pulled up Singapore Framework (SF), which describes AP more fully, e.g. domain models, syntax, etc. Could we bring a sentence or to into primer that gives context to tap. communities with variations.


tom: ap in SF to get people to think about larger picture; context around ap. Then showed a basis in RDF.

kc: we haven't said why you might need an ap. DataCite as an example - each contributor has some differences. Those would be profiles. ditto BIBFRAME - everyone creates profiles for what they are going to create. Almost everyone creating metadata even from the same standard has some slightly different needs. The way we say it now it seems like we are telling people to create brand new metadata schemas from defined vocabularies. Don't say that there may be a metadata standard in between the vocab and the AP. There is a standard built on the vocabulary, and the profile builds on that standard.

phil: primer has emphasis on creating something new. Take SF: "The term profile is widely used to refer to a document that describes how standards or specifications are deployed to support the requirements of a particular application, function, community, or context. In the metadata community, the term application profile has been applied to describe the tailoring of standards for specific applications."

ACTION: kc will fit that into the primer definition; link to SF document as prior work for info. First add to github issue

kc: RDF itself doesn't create a schema in the sense we mean it here. All "constraints" are only inferences. Does that mean less emphasis on RDF in this section?

phil: problem with 'schema' -- used in many different ways (references Kant! understanding the world). Better to talk about domain models

tom: agree; agree with all above but not use 'schema'. RDF is inherently unbounded; the AP puts a box around it. RDF is a *sea of triples*. shex schema is like an AP - sets bounds etc. that aren't in the RDF language

DSP
Phil: TAP is DSP; you can have domain models and vocabularies, and TAP describes the DSP. It doesn't include the whole AP as described in SF

Tom: add a sentence to say it would be good to have functional requirements...

kc: DSP is built on DCAM and a domain model, so there is an assumption that people have something defined that they are profiling

phil: can't have value shapes without domain model

Tom: value shapes are expression of the domain model so there doesn't need to be something out there that already defines those

kc: as in schema.org where the structure is very general so a user needs to define their own structure

phil: you can create a model using different properties in schema.org

john: a domain model might be implicit in a set of terms; or with OWL classes. Not necessarily a separate document. Said to Tom in Hamburg - this is kind of an on-ramp to things that people are going to try to do. They do have something in mind. TAP is starting point. Common starting point is that people have something they want to do and they need a way to document it. May not be final.

tom: people don't set out to create a standard

john: if we see TAP as defining a standard then it would fall short because it does offer enough possibilities. That's ok because it is a first step. Some may not need to go further.

kc: redefine this section as less RDF, but talking about components of a vocabulary & model.

tom & phil: yes

tom: call it "schemas" in scare quotes, then "how to confuse everybody". Vocabularies and models captures the essence.

kc: from SF, we should saysomething about other documents and standards.

phil: this is a style guide, not a description of metadata world. Don't need to address them in style guide

kc: possibly in primer; you may need to provide more than a csv to be useful

phil: style guide needs to define terms we are using

kc: next section doesn't make use of all of these terms; need to add 'property' to that section; statement constraint is anchored to a property; 

phil: shapes MAY be related to classes

kc: some shapes are more functional than class like. eg foaf forename/lastname

phil: more like object-oriented where class is a grouping

kc: in RDF, class is concept not structure

john:  what I observe is that the further away you get from metadata people the more likely you find folks who are thinking in database terms. This is like a regression from your metadata structure. OK to say TAP supports RDF, but important that it also support other data formats. don't cut off possibility that it will be used for database-based metadata.

phil: will be instantiating this in code as O-O class in their code, regardless of the different definition of RDF class.

tom: can't say concept scheme is a scheme; a bit orthogonal to AP

Phil: a key part of some are controlled vocabulary

kc: metadata standards make use of concept schemes

phil: some standards define them

kc: ACTION: try to create simplified version

phil: heading "The Things Being Profiled"

kc: things being profiled not same a things being described; use of "thing" problem because means two different things in the document; call it 'vocabularies and models'
