# DC TAP meeting Thursday, October 13, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** [https://hackmd.io/q0YCEvM6S3C63hssBhNLMA](https://hackmd.io/zJEiIlPyT6qiQHLPlxO-Kg)

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=202200929T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants

* Tom, John, Nishad, Karen, Phil

## Agenda

* Report on tutorial (23 attendees)
* Issues from [SRAP](https://github.com/dcmi/dc-srap/blob/main/profile/srap-profile.md)
    * How to say "use any property from this list" (Tom suggests constraint type, maybe PropertyIDType as iristem)
    * How to document domains and ranges
* Any changes to [vocabulary](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/blob/main/TAPvocabulary.md)? ("statement constraint" to "statement template" already done)

## Minutes

**Tutorial** First half fine, best to introduce program at end to keep people's attention

Tom: Could be presented as an AP workflow rather than intro to format

kc: SRAP brings up issues for a TAP. Want to define a stem for propertyID. See issue #80. Can this be done? The list would be very long. This would also include the labels. But not clear how you do cardinality.

kc: problem is that many are not subclassed to dct:contributor, so they are only skos concepts (which may be odd when used as properties - or illegal)

phil: I'd have a different approach. I'd have a "rdfs:type" and then use these as classes. skos concept as a class seems better than as a property.

kc: or use dct:contributor with these as values

phil: general use case is for wanting to use one from a long list of properties

tom: my proposal (#80) is 1) to treat it as a picklist of properties

phil: you don't need to say picklist - just put a list there

kc: but we have *value* constraint, not property constraint

tom: suggesting the same types as a way to constrain propertyIDs, but not as values. Would be another column

phil: the other thing for a long list is to have a reference pointer to an external list. Such as for the country codes. you don't want that list in a cell - too long. 

tom: would a downstream app need to check that list? 

phil: if I wrote it it would. I see this as an extension - not part of basic TAP. Cookbook.

kc: external lists in datacite were in XML-insert code, but were not just a list of terms. Could "picklist" point to where it resides? Does this require another value constraint type

tom: that was my question; could it just be a link in the value constraint column? or would it be in a documentation column, which is easier to implement. value constraint should be actionable (for validation)

phil: open question of when you dereference the list (in a program) and insert the actual values. Could write code to insert list when you export it as a CSV. You don't have to add the values by hand. It's just a list, that happens to be very long.

**Domains and ranges**

kc: some folks have wanted to document domains and/or ranges. 

tom: this could be done by using a shape with rdf:type. Osma wondered if there was a way to do it on one row. Do you expect the domain to be in the data? to be validated? or it could be a documentation note if it is intended as a hint to users. 

phil: domain and range are attributes of a property, which have presumably been defined in a vocabulary.

john: profile might be documentation from the source as a way to have that all together. But property label in TAP is ambiguous - is it copied from the vocabulary? or something different? Could it just be added columns?

kc: yes to adding columns, but they are not "official" - official is in the vocabulary. So see them as documentation only

kc: as John brings up, what is the status of the label? Can you assign a new label without violating the defined vocabulary.

phil: No, you shouldn't do that. You can get more than one label for a property and you won't know which to use. 

kc: a label is not unique. you cannot use the labels as identifiers.

tom: this came up in early years of APs. You can want to add labels in other languages. Giving a new label does not change the meaning of the property. Label doesn't change semantics.

phil: that's fine from semantics point of view, but only within your own publication. 

tom: distinguish between global labels and local labels. 

kc: can we define propertyLabel as local? oftentimes the label in the rdf vocabulary is not very useful (like dct:creator v. a label of author)

nishad: this fits the definition of an application profile because a profile is all about local application semantics. profile is a localization.

kc: where should we document this? just say local label

phil: vocabulary document AND the primer

tom: would we want to say that the shape label is local

john: the very idea of a profile goes against some of how rdf works. iso 11915 geo metadata standard. had mechanism for profile development. rdf has global semantics

nishad: schema is very specific, hundreds of terms. But the DC idea was to be more abstract. DC creator has hundreds of applications with various specific meanings

phil: I'd say DCAT itself is an application profile. Local can be big, and is a community, not a single application. Many terms in schema.org are broad enough to have more than one usage, e.g. "actor" used for "supporting actor". Google defines application profiles of schema, when it shows how to use schema for different products.

kc: have a section of the cookbook that is very rdf-centric. 

nishad: can have problems because dctap is overly broad. in yaml label is multi-lingual. dctap does not have multi-lingual labels.

kc: can't you have labels with language tags?

nishad: hard to create a program for dctap because it is not specific. 

nishad: how to represent cardinality? is it yes/no, 0/1?

kc: cardinality possibilities are in the cookbook. then we need to point from places in primer to sections in cookbook
