# DC TAP meeting Thursday, March 17, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/-VlkCU_DTxaDLVgynnA1mg

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20220310T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants

* Phil Barker
* Tom Baker
* Karen Coyle
* John Huck
* Nishad

## Meeting time
1. Stay at the same local time by moving to 14:00 UTC
2. Continue at 15:00 UTC, meaning local time will be +1 hour 

DECISION: continue with 15:00 UTC

## Agenda

Today it's the "Application Profiles" section of the framework.

* Framework: https://hackmd.io/7RT1MstvS7yumgVwbtFm2A
* Github issue: https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/35
* [The Singapore Framework](https://www.dublincore.org/specifications/dublin-core/singapore-framework/)
* Definition issue: https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/66

## Minutes

John: we should talk about this at the DCMI meeting

kc: and webinars! SWIB, etc.

kc: Define application profile

phil: I was less clear about this part

kc: we haven't actually defined the application profile - maybe something before "additional to".

tom: APs have a history in DCMI. Add something here?

kc: acknowledge that on our github repo. 

tom: will this be part of spec or separate?

phil: best as a style guide; perhaps informing the terms declaration (tap vocab document)

kc: that doc is very concise; perhaps adding this would be a bit more expansive.

tom: "how models and vocabularies are used in a metadata instance..."

kc: statement constraints -> constraints on metadata statements found in the instance data. (Doesn't include shapes.) 

kc: next paragraph - talks about "parts" but ... 

phil: what to call the columns?

tom: we've called them elements - another one of those overused terms

john: are constraints general? or is a row a constraint? Also, say "set of constraints on metadata statements"

tom: rows are rules for statements... rows define constraints on statements, and columns have individual rules for the statements.

john: what would we call one row? statement constraint?

tom: that's the main thing but also includes name for the shape. if we say rows are constraints on statements, that goes too far

john: but what does a row represent?

tom: that's why I say "holds" because it can hold statement and shape

john: are constraints the same as rules?

phil: a row holds a statement constraint and a statement constraint contains rules

tom: and also elements? what's difference between constraint, rule, and element?

tom: I prefer constraint to rules

kc: I prefer rule to constraint

phil: constraint is all of the rules taken together

tom: I see a rule as having expressivity and a constraint is an element of a rule

john: each cell contains a rule. the columns don't have the rules. some columns have labels, etc. 

kc: columns have types of rules

phil: an element is part of a statement constraint, and the element is what's in the cell. also not every cell with have a rule in it. sometimes more than one cell is needed to define a rule (value constraint and type).

"columns for the elements of the rules"

john: individual elements are in separate columns; switch word order

kc: we are tripping up on the difference between defining THE tap and defining A tap. We need to decide which this is.

phil: that would be the next section. THE tap is what the vocab file defines.

kc: the first section defines the tap. Do we need to distinguish between CSV values and comma-separated individual cell entries.

tom: is "entry" a cell value? 

phil: a cell can have more than one entry

kc: can we not address this here? we haven't mentioned saving as CSV. That is in the primer. Also, we have defined "value" in the metadata area, and it would mean something different here.

kc: next is to define shape.

"is a set of statement constraints"

tom: relates to a common entity; is a set of constraints about a common ... entity? 

tom&phil: need something like "node" in the metadata section. 
