# DC TAP meeting Thursday, June 9, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/dOVU8r98TpaiEYTr_ozTQA

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20220609T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants


## Announcements



## Agenda

* [DC Tabular Application Profiles (DC TAP) - Primer](/DErWH403RaWiBippMFosaw)
    * Still only edited to line 177
    * One heads up about picklist
* [Cookbook](https://hackmd.io/V3LGdBdxTrOid57M2wJUlw) has:
    * min/max cardinality
    * min/max values
    * Namespace declaration
    * Multiple values in a cell
    * Defining order of properties
    * Defining order of values

## Minutes

Dealing with mandatory properties that can have empty values: Nishad: can use a regular expression rather than xsd:string that says: string or empty is valid. But can also ask for "none" or "null" instead of empty string.

phil: multiples in cell are alternatives. You can say that it's string or null. (May not be a null in xsd). 

nishad: also use type for casting, like numerical IDs cast to string.

kc: address in TAP?

nishad: hard to include what you really need "in the wild" in TAP. Ended up going back to data package after all

kc: Primer --
last time we talked about multiple values, and we said we'd deal with those in the cookbook -- but we still have picklist. I'll say: is a list, separate as you wish, more info in cookbook. Somewhere in document we will say: if you think you need to use multiple values in a cell, look at the cookbook for examples.

phil: the way I remember it we weren't removing all references to multiple values. I discussed putting som eof the more complex ones in the cookbook, like separators. keep: processed as logical "or". 

kc: if we want to make a general statement then it needs to not be just in the valueConstraint area but in an area that is more general.

tom: it's fine to generalize and say "logical or" but cookbook should go through each element to say what it might mean.

kc: could be examples

phil: leave in 'logical or' and say that booleans can only have one value.

tom: in the abstract you can say there are multiple values in a cell but an implementation would need to know which ones are taking multiples, and what the separator is. That's outside the scope of the base specification. Maybe say that communicating this downstream is application specific. My program uses a config file, others may do it differently.

kc: we say: need to convey to downstream users

**Cookbook**
kc: Lists issues that have been moved from github to cookbook. Others should edit with different ideas. Issues will be closed when covered.

**DCAP github issues**

(Group closes issues, moves some, and leaves the ones that were case studies and requirements for documentation purposes.)

To do: shapes on a separate row. Not clear what that means - because only shape label would be unchanged.

To do: what to say about relationship of AP to base vocab - cookbook. Must conform to specification it is profiling. Say this in primer? Yes. Sentence or two in primer. 

#62 - can you create a TAP for classes? Phil: this is out of scope. Close as out of scope.

"profile"" vs "profiles" - Karen will make sure this is used in the documents.

Phil: "DCMI specification for Tabular Application Profiles"

john: it's a "community specification"

kc: still need to decide if we will create a formal vocabulary

tom: space: dc tap, or without dctap?

#57 Quick statements as an alternative syntax - if someone does an example we will add that 

All remaining issues can be looked at for possible cookbook items.

kc: Copy Framework to repo.

Phil: how do we "socialize" this work with the rest of dcmi?

