# DC TAP meeting Thursday, January 20, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/TNn4gXiOTbmocY03vZhWtA

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20220120T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants
* Tom Baker
* Karen Coyle
* Phil Barker
* Nishad


## Agenda
### Work on Primer

* on [Hackmd](https://hackmd.io/DErWH403RaWiBippMFosaw) for easier commenting
* [updates from last meeting](https://github.com/kcoyle/dcap/commit/a5ab54d9366e94aa722ca166010bdd676337e16a#diff-28cc19f2013c7b9e915c4c8a3ac5b2c668e8a02e5c6852dd027cfbed2e1be01b)
* Suggestions throughout from Phil (see comments on HackMD file)
* Issues:
    * Picklists? https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/63
    * Do we need valueshape? https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/64

## Minutes

Edits made (see https://hackmd.io/DErWH403RaWiBippMFosaw). Long discussion of "constraint" - no conclusion. Tom and Nishad favor constraint; Karen favors "provides" or "defines" constraints.

**Picklists**
Do we need picklist or is any cell a picklist?

phil: single value is a picklist of one; calling it picklist doesn't add anything.

tom: this brings up the whole question of multiple values, which isn't addressed in the primer.

kc: we took that out of the primer, so it's now back-burnered in the cookbook.

tom: we do need it - expect more than one value

kc: this may be more human-facing. that tells people it's a list of values. we haven't forbidden multiple values in other cells but we also haven't defined what those would look like.

tom: leave separator issue to implementors.

phil: ok to leave picklist. it's actually repeats in other cells that I've run into. also, if what is repeated is a IRIstem? Is that a picklist of IRIstems? Do we need to define "piclist" value constraints for everything? want to avoid having both picklist and IRIstem in same value constraint.

tom: want base specification to be very simple; picklist would be can of worms

nishad: picklist can also be constrained with a pattern. but I prefer 'list' not 'picklist'

tom: conveys that you select just one: pick

nishad: redundant with pattern; just about any constraint can be written with pattern

kc: many people creating metadata aren't coders, don't do regex. so you can do either, depending on your skills

nishad: regular expression and pattern are different things. regex must be proper regex, and pattern can be anything. 

kc: maybe pattern could be a chunk of shacl or shex

nishad: constraints relate to validation rather than semantics. AP is purely semantic; constraints make validation possible. 

DECISION: leave in picklist

**valueShape**

kc: in XML, valueShape is not a value of any property, it's all done with hierarchy

phil: also true in JSON - anything that is hierarchical

kc: means that valueShape needs to be associated with a shape, not a property

phil: we can define a shapeID that is never a valueShape

tom: valueShape is a resource; constrains whole context

phil: folks not thinking about arcs, just about the data with punctuation. so their "shape" is not the same as the RDF shape, but it still makes sense.

kc: where do you put that in the TAP?

phil: starting over, I would just have a value constraint type of "shape". 

tom: you might want an IRI stem and a shape

phil: as it stands you might want to provide more than one constraint for a property, and you can do that by repeating the row

tom: what if it's "or" instead of "and"

kc: we haven't decided if multiple rows with the same property has to be an AND or an OR

phil sees it as an AND. tom sees it as an OR. 

tom: we shouldn't try to be too prescriptive - different applications might see it differently

both BIBFRAME and schema.org do this. It gets tricky, though, when one is mandatory.

kc: this is the DCAT-AP problem, between accessURL and downloadURL. Once you get mandatory in there, you need to be able to say A or B = mandatory. Can't easily do that with a table

kc: can this be in the cookbook? with examples

phil: valueShape - not keen to change it. OK to leave it as it is. It would be more concise, but can't do Tom's alternatives.

DECISION: leave valueShape as is

kc: Need to see how we can do this with JSON and XML.

ACTION: kc to create github issue for the XML/JSON problem

phil: might need to have alternative defintions for shape so that it works in xml/json

phil: working on the tap-shacl conversion. there was an example in the shacl spec. looking at dcat-ap, and found test instances from dcat-ap to shacl. been converting tap to shacl, then comparing that to the dcat shacl -- AND THEY MATCH! Will do: DC TAP for DCAT-AP.
