# DC TAP meeting Thursday, July 7, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** [https://hackmd.io/mKcvYrWQTfiWNk6K1VYWHw](https://hackmd.io/v7P5LqBRTl6_qMUdnbHn5w)

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=20220623T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants

* John, Nishad, Tom, Karen, Phil

## Agenda

* Cookbook updates ([diff]((https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/commit/97953ca02fe9cb65bca16fbe61d7fe9c5fbd690c))). Or comment on [hackmd draft](/V3LGdBdxTrOid57M2wJUlw) 
* Phil updated min/max length and min/max value in the cookbook
* Karen updated "Specific cardinality"
* Karen created [paragraph](https://lists.dublincore.org/pipermail/application-profiles-ig/2022-July/000675.html)) to include:
    * multiple values in a cell are alternatives
    * each row is interpreted independently
    * all rules on a row must be validated
* Continue with [cookbook issues](https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Acookbook)

## Minutes

Tom: need a template for the cookbook. Need something that can be published on DC web site.

kc: copy and paste from excel to markdown works. but it's not just the tables

phil: readthedocs is markdown. nkdocs also

**Cookbook changes**

changes have been pushed to github

Phil did min/max values and lengths. 

kc: cookbook needs a section on how to read TAP. (phil gives example: contact details are mandatory, but can be either address or email. CE Organization TAP)

tom: what do these two rows mean? both need to match?

phil: yes

tom: what if you have two and they are "or"?

phil: two values in a cell

kc: there are limits on logic (if-then-else). Some might be possible with shapes, but not all. TAP is a SIMPLE profile (maybe we should have gotten "S" into the name)

kc: ACTION - make that example less confusing. Just do "max" at the beginning. Then show a min/max. 

kc: "specific cardinality" - cannot be a value constraint because cardinality is not a value. This uses columns

phil: am doing this in taps that convert to shacl, so this works

kc: added this into Primer in "using a TAP":
* multiple values in a cell are alternatives
* each row is interpreted independently
* all rules on a row must be validated

kc: ACTION try "using language indicators in strings" - langstring for RDF, other for XML or JSON? the latter would be "add a column" #44

tom: not rules, just examples

kc: #45 Lists of things not in RDF (e.g. do not have URLs) (Phil: "I need this: I have a text field that is US state or CA province") This is a kind of modularity. 

phil: can be a separate sheet with a range reference. not a general solution.

kc: how to link from TAP to some other file

tom: cookbook could have section on how to use multiple sheets in TAP environment

kc: #70 is about modularizing. Easy if you have the same columns, but not withg different tables with different columns

john: not clear why this example doesn't meet our idea of picklist. (list has values like <xs:enumeration value="Distributor"/>)

phil: two problems: one) is the size of the list in the TAP, which is hard to manage all in one cell two) this data may be used in more than one shape. So need to store the list elsewhere and use it 

phil: need something like $include in JSON schema. 

kc: would that work in the value constraint? including that would be part of the processing of the TAP.

phil: it's the human side that is a concern. But does the $include become part of the TAP or is it a processing convention for those who use it

tom: the latter

phil: ACTION add example in cookbook

Phil: in README on dctap github - move "Primary documents" to top. Add style guide

KC: DONE
