# DC TAP meeting Thursday, February 3, 2022

**Zoom link:** https://us02web.zoom.us/j/85164307523?pwd=QTMybkFlSTJoUHA3cHp0NkZkU1ZZdz09

**HackMD link:** https://hackmd.io/QaPg2nDKQeGNXYoJWM9vpQ

**Time:** 15:00 UTC ([check time](https://www.timeanddate.com/worldclock/fixedtime.html?msg=DC+TAP&iso=202200203T15&p1=%3A&ah=1))

## Participants
* Tom Baker
* Phil Barker
* Karen Coyle
* John Huck


## Agenda

### Discuss Phil's terminology document

Phil has provided "A Framework for thinking about application profiles" that summarizes:
* For real world things: use entity, characteristics, relationship and entity class.
* For metadata: use instance (data), statements, subject, predicate, object, value.
* For schema: use vocabulary, term, property, (metadata) class, ontology, concept scheme.
* For application profiles (especially TAPs): use rule, statement constraint, element, shape, column, row, entry.

The document is here, and there is prior discussion in a github issue:

* Framework: https://hackmd.io/7RT1MstvS7yumgVwbtFm2A
* Github issue: https://github.com/dcmi/dctap/issues/35

## Minutes

Note: Phil made changes to the Framework document as we went through. 

Real world "Things" - talk about entities and types of entities - not classes.

Metadata: Discussion of IRI or blank node for predicate. 

subject: is an identifier (not identifies). object is an identifier or description.

predicate: is an identifier for characteristic... is a relationship

phil: characteristic is more "normal"

tom: predicate is identifier for a characteristic being described

kc: should we include relationship? with string it seems like a characteristic; with an IRI it feels like a relationship

john: in definition for statement does characteristic refer to property or to property value?

kc: characteristic seems to be the property and the string value

phil: "statement" doesn't say anything about predicates. That's ok because predicate is part of the statement

john: thinking about "asserts" - in definition of statement. Jargony.

phil: used in the definition 

john: describes and asserts are different. Take out asserts. 

Going with asserts, can review later.

John: asserts "the value" 

phil: "asserts" avoids philosophy of "truth". You can assert different values. Use "asserts *a* value". 

tom: object is description of characteristic or identifier for related entity

object is description of characterisitic or identifier ...

john: added comment on predicate - should it say "type of relationship"? 

phil: some confusion brought by RDF using both predicate and property for the same thing

john: to me "assert" is the whole statement. define predicate as its role in the statement

tom: make distinction between real world use of *property* and the metadata use. try to avoid forward reference to property

kc: we can come back to this one

**Metadata schema:**

tom: wary of word *schema*. Can we refer to the metadata vocabulary instead of schema.

kc: xml, rdf, json - all have schemas

kc: metadata is not just vocabulary; it can include rules

john: rdf schema is a standard for defining rdf but you may not be using much of rdf schema itself.

phil: people will come to document wondering where does schema fit in?

tom: have sentence about other metadata frameworks and say what they are called

phil: sections begin as general statements, then it goes to describing what it means in RDF. Schema does define a vocabulary. 

tom: that begins to get into application profile.

kc: an AP is a selection from the schema

john: I don't think people talk about RDF schemas. MARC says "record format". Schema is closely tied to XML; in RDF one refers to a vocabulary. 

tom: "in other metadata frameworks..."

phil: I've tried to use framework as bigger than a schema.

tom: use schema only in terms of defining how it's used in various data formats

john: heading - "metadata schemas and vocabularies"

phil: added "standards"

kc: there is the standard (e.g. rdf, or xml schema) and then there's your metadata 

phil: are we profiling a standard? a vocabulary?

tom: we are profiling instance data

phil: AP is profiling something, and instance data must conform to that. is a profile based on a standard

kc: if we aren't clear, we can end up with the TAP being a metadata schema. we don't want it to be a way to define metadata in general, but a profile of existing metadata schema for a specific application.

phil: what are we profiling for the application?

kc: in rdf we can be profiling based on a vocabulary, but in xml we would be profiling based on an existing schema

john: or profiling based on a standard. for xml you would make a profile of a standard (an existing standard) There can be both a schema and a human-readable document and they aren't necessarily the same.

kc: tap is machine-readable, and we haven't said how it might connect to human-readable documentation. if you base a tap on the human-readable documentation then you have created a schema, which is scary.

phil refers to section on how to confuse yourself

all agree: AP is a kind of schema

phil: a style guide because other uses of these terms could be valid

kc: look at Singapore Framework - try to define where schema and AP fit together.

phil: schema is a vocabulary plus a model (this fits with SF)

Next time: last two sections. Phil will continue to edit.


### Work on Primer

* on [Hackmd](https://hackmd.io/DErWH403RaWiBippMFosaw) for easier commenting
* [updates from last meeting](https://github.com/kcoyle/dcap/commit/0286b5e2ecee80f138080693caa38f5ed5b87c04#diff-28cc19f2013c7b9e915c4c8a3ac5b2c668e8a02e5c6852dd027cfbed2e1be01b) 


